Resource: Business summary:
 Item 1. Business 

Overview 

Our mission is to give people the power to build community and bring the world closer together. 

All of our products, including our apps, share the vision of helping to bring the metaverse to life. We build technology that helps people connect and share, find communities, and grow businesses. Our products enable people to connect and share with friends and family through mobile devices, personal computers, virtual reality (VR) and mixed reality (MR) headsets, and wearables. We also help people discover and learn about what is going on in the world around them, enable people to share their experiences, ideas, photos and videos, and other activities with audiences ranging from their closest family members and friends to the public at large, and stay connected everywhere by accessing our products. Meta is moving our offerings beyond 2D screens toward immersive experiences like augmented and virtual reality to help build the metaverse, which we believe is the next evolution in social technology. Our vision for the metaverse does not center on any single product, but rather an entire ecosystem of experiences, devices, and new technologies. While the metaverse is in the very early stages of its development, we believe it will become the next computing platform and the future of social interaction. Across our work, we are innovating in artificial intelligence (AI) technologies to build new experiences that help make our platform more social, useful, and immersive. 

We report financial results for two segments: Family of Apps (FoA) and Reality Labs (RL). Currently, we generate substantially all of our revenue from selling advertising placements on our family of apps to marketers, which is reflected in FoA. Ads on our platform enable marketers to reach people across a range of marketing objectives, such as generating leads or driving awareness. Marketers purchase ads that can appear in multiple places including on Facebook, Instagram, Messenger, and third-party applications and websites. RL generates revenue from sales of consumer hardware products, software, and content. 

We invest in our business based on our company priorities. In 2024, we intend to focus on six key investment areas: AI, the metaverse, our discovery engine, monetization of our products and services, regulatory readiness, and enhancing developer efficiency to build, iterate, and optimize products quickly. Our AI investments support initiatives across our products and services, helping power the systems that rank content in our apps, our discovery engine that recommends relevant content, the tools advertisers use to reach customers, the development of new generative AI experiences, and the tools that make our product development more efficient and productive. 

The majority of our investments are directed toward developing our family of apps. In 2023, 80% of our total costs and expenses were recognized in FoA and 20% were recognized in RL. Our FoA investments were $70.13 billion in 2023 and include expenses relating to headcount, data centers and technical infrastructure as part of our efforts to develop our apps and our advertising services. We are also making significant investments in our metaverse efforts, including developing virtual and augmented reality devices, software for social platforms, neural interfaces, and other foundational technologies. Our total RL investments were $18.02 billion in 2023 and include expenses relating to headcount and technology development across these efforts. These are fundamentally new technologies that we expect will evolve as the metaverse ecosystem develops, and many products for the metaverse may only be fully realized in the next decade. Although it is inherently difficult to predict when and how the metaverse ecosystem will develop, we expect our RL segment to continue to operate at a loss for the foreseeable future, and our ability to support our metaverse efforts is dependent on generating sufficient profits from other areas of our business. We expect this will be a complex, evolving, and long-term initiative. We are investing now because we believe this is the next chapter of the internet and will unlock monetization opportunities for businesses, developers, and creators, including around advertising, hardware, and digital goods. 

Family of Apps Products 

&#8226; Facebook. Facebook helps give people the power to build community and bring the world closer together. It's a place for people to share life's moments and discuss what's happening, nurture and build relationships, discover and connect to interests, and create economic opportunity. They can do this through Feed, Reels, Stories, Groups, Marketplace, and more. 

Table of Contents 

&#8226; Instagram. Instagram brings people closer to the people and things they love. Instagram Feed, Stories, Reels, Live, and messaging are places where people and creators can connect and express themselves through photos, video, and private messaging, and discover and shop from their favorite businesses. 

&#8226; Messenger. Messenger is a simple yet powerful messaging application for people to connect with friends, family, communities, and businesses across platforms and devices through text, audio, and video calls. 

&#8226; Threads. Threads is an application for text-based updates and public conversations, where communities come together to discuss topics of interest. People can connect directly with their favorite creators and others who love the same things or build a loyal following of their own to share their ideas, opinions, and creativity with the world. 

&#8226; WhatsApp. WhatsApp is a simple, reliable, and secure messaging application that is used by people and businesses around the world to communicate and transact in a private way. Within WhatsApp we launched WhatsApp Channels, a one-to-many broadcast service designed to help people follow information from people and organizations that are important to them. 

Reality Labs Products 

Many of our metaverse investments are directed toward long-term, cutting-edge research and development for products that are not on the market today and may only be fully realized in the next decade. This includes exploring new technologies such as neural interfaces using electromyography, which lets people control their devices using neuromuscular signals, as well as innovations in AI and hardware to help build next-generation interfaces. In the near term, we are continuing to develop early metaverse experiences through Reality Labs products that help people feel connected, anytime, anywhere. 

Our current product offerings in VR include our Meta Quest devices, as well as software and content available through the Meta Quest Store, which enable a range of social experiences that allow people to defy physical distance while engaging in gaming, fitness, entertainment, and more. For example, Meta Horizon Worlds is a social platform where people can interact with friends, meet new people, play games, and attend virtual events. 

To drive greater adoption and acceptance of VR we have also introduced MR capabilities, which allow users to experience the immersion and presence of VR while still being grounded in the physical world, through our Meta Quest Pro and Meta Quest 3 devices. 

We have continued to advance our augmented reality (AR) roadmap to include offerings such as the Ray-Ban Meta smart glasses, which feature Meta AI, our advanced conversational assistant, as well as offer the ability to livestream video and let people stay more present through hands-free interaction. We also offer Meta Spark, a platform that allows creators and businesses to build AR experiences that bring the digital and physical worlds together in our apps. 

In general, while all of these investments are part of our long-term initiative to help build the metaverse, our VR and social platform efforts also include notable shorter-term projects developing specific products and services to go to market, whereas our AR efforts are primarily directed toward longer-term research and development projects. For example, in 2024, we expect to spend approximately 50% of our Reality Labs operating expenses on our AR initiatives, approximately 40% on our VR (including MR) initiatives, and approximately 10% on social platforms and other initiatives. We apply significant judgment in estimating this expense breakdown as there are certain shared costs across product lines, and our expectations are subject to change, including as the metaverse ecosystem and our business strategies evolve. In particular, we regularly evaluate our product roadmaps and make significant changes as our understanding of the technological challenges and market landscape and our product ideas and designs evolve. 

Competition 

Our business is characterized by innovation, rapid change, and disruptive technologies. We compete with companies providing connection, sharing, discovery, and communication products and services to users online, as well as companies that sell advertising to businesses looking to reach consumers and/or develop tools and systems for managing and optimizing advertising campaigns. We face significant competition in every aspect of our business, including, but not limited to, companies that facilitate the ability of users to create, share, communicate, and discover content and information online or 

Table of Contents 

enable marketers to reach their existing or prospective audiences. We compete to attract, engage, and retain people who use our products, to attract and retain businesses that use our free or paid business and advertising services, and to attract and retain developers who build compelling applications that integrate with our products. We also compete with companies that develop and deliver consumer hardware and virtual and augmented reality products and services. We also expect to face additional competition as we introduce or acquire new products, as our existing products evolve, or as other companies introduce new products and services, including as part of efforts to develop the metaverse or innovate through the development and application of new technologies such as AI. 

Technology 

Our product development philosophy centers on continuous innovation in creating and improving products that are social by design, which means that our products are designed to place people and their social interactions at the core of the product experience. As our user base grows, as engagement with products like video, VR, and MR increases, and as we deepen our investment in new technologies, our computing needs continue to expand. We have designed and built our own data centers and key portions of our technical infrastructure, and a substantial portion of our technical infrastructure is also provided by third parties. Our ability to provide and continue to innovate our products and services depends on the continued availability of components, power, and network capacity. 

We make significant investments in technology both to improve our existing products and services and to develop new ones, as well as for our marketers and developers. We are also investing in protecting the security, privacy, and integrity of our platform by investing in both people and technology to strengthen our systems against abuse. Across all of these efforts, we are making significant investments in AI initiatives, including generative AI, to, among other things, recommend relevant content across our products through our AI-powered discovery engine, enhance our advertising tools and improve our ad delivery, targeting, and measurement capabilities, and to develop new products as well as new features for existing products. 

Sales and Operations 

The majority of our marketers use our self-service ad platform to launch and manage their advertising campaigns. We also have a global sales force that is focused on attracting and retaining advertisers and providing support to them throughout the stages of the marketing cycle from pre-purchase decision-making to real-time optimizations to post-campaign analytics. We work directly with these advertisers, as well as through advertising agencies and resellers. We operate offices in approximately 90 cities around the globe, the majority of which have a sales presence. We also invest in and rely on self-service tools to provide direct customer support to our users and partners. 

For our RL products, our sales and operations efforts utilize third-party sales channels such as retailers, resellers, and our direct-to-consumer channel, Meta.com. These efforts are focused on driving consumer and enterprise sales and adoption of our Meta Quest portfolio of products and Ray-Ban Meta smart glasses. 

Marketing 

Historically, our communities have generally grown organically with people inviting their friends to connect with them, supported by internal efforts to stimulate awareness and interest. In addition, we have invested and will continue to invest in marketing our products and services to grow our brand and help build community around the world. 

Intellectual Property 

To establish and protect our proprietary rights, we rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, including know-how, license agreements, confidentiality procedures, non-disclosure agreements with third parties, employee disclosure and invention assignment agreements, and other contractual rights. In addition, to further protect our proprietary rights, from time to time we have purchased patents and patent applications from third parties. We do not believe that our proprietary technology is dependent on any single patent or copyright or groups of related patents or copyrights. We believe the duration of our patents is adequate relative to the expected lives of our products. 

Table of Contents 

Government Regulation 

We are subject to a variety of laws and regulations in the United States and abroad that involve matters central to our business, many of which are still evolving and being tested in courts, and could be interpreted in ways that could harm our business. These laws and regulations involve matters including privacy, data use, data protection and personal information, the provision of our services to younger users, biometrics, encryption, rights of publicity, content, integrity, intellectual property, advertising, marketing, distribution, data security, data retention and deletion, data localization and storage, data disclosure, AI and machine learning, electronic contracts and other communications, competition, protection of minors, consumer protection, civil rights, accessibility, telecommunications, product liability, e-commerce, taxation, economic or other trade controls including sanctions, anti-corruption and political law compliance, securities law compliance, and online payment services. Foreign data protection, privacy, content, competition, consumer protection, and other laws and regulations can impose different obligations or be more restrictive than those in the United States, and create the potential for significant fines to be imposed. 

These U.S. federal and state, EU, and other international laws and regulations, which in some cases can be enforced by private parties in addition to government entities, are constantly evolving and can be subject to significant change. As a result, the application, interpretation, and enforcement of these laws and regulations are often uncertain, particularly in the new and rapidly evolving industry in which we operate, and may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and inconsistently with our current policies and practices. For example, regulatory or legislative actions or litigation concerning the manner in which we display content to our users, moderate content, provide our services to younger users, or are able to use data in various ways, including for advertising, or otherwise relating to content that is made available on our products, could adversely affect our financial results, including by imposing significant fines that increasingly may be calculated based on global revenue. In the United States, in 2023, the U.S. Supreme Court heard oral argument in a matter in which the scope of the protections available to online platforms under Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act (Section 230) was at issue, but it ultimately declined to address Section 230 in its decision. In addition, there have been, and continue to be, various efforts to remove or restrict the scope of the protections available to online platforms under Section 230, and any such changes may increase our costs or require significant changes to our products, business practices, or operations, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. 

We are also subject to evolving laws and regulations that dictate whether, how, and under what circumstances we can transfer, process or receive certain data that is critical to our operations, including data shared between countries or regions in which we operate and data shared among our products and services. If we are unable to transfer data between and among countries and regions in which we operate, or if we are restricted from sharing data among our products and services, it could affect our ability to provide our services, the manner in which we provide our services or our ability to target ads, which could adversely affect our financial results. For example, the Privacy Shield, a transfer framework we relied upon for data transferred from the European Union to the United States, was invalidated in July 2020 by the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU). In addition, the other bases upon which Meta relies to transfer such data, such as Standard Contractual Clauses (SCCs), have been subjected to regulatory and judicial scrutiny. For example, although the CJEU upheld the validity of SCCs as a basis to transfer user data from the European Union to the United States in July 2020, on May 12, 2023, the Irish Data Protection Committee (IDPC) issued a Final Decision concluding that Meta Platforms Ireland's reliance on SCCs in respect of certain transfers of European Economic Area (EEA) Facebook user data was not in compliance with the European General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). The IDPC issued an administrative fine of EUR &#8364;1.2 billion as well as corrective orders requiring Meta Platforms Ireland to suspend the relevant transfers and to bring its processing operations into compliance with Chapter V GDPR by ceasing the unlawful processing, including storage, of such data in the United States. We are appealing this decision and the corrective orders are currently subject to an interim stay from the Irish High Court. Separately, on March 25, 2022, the European Union and United States announced that they had reached an agreement in principle on a new EU-U.S. Data Privacy Framework (EU-U.S. DPF). On October 7, 2022, President Biden signed the Executive Order on Enhancing Safeguards for United States Signals Intelligence Activities (E.O.), and on June 30, 2023, the European Union and the three additional countries making up the EEA were designated by the United States Attorney General as a "qualifying state" under Section 3(f) of the E.O. On July 10, 2023, the European Commission adopted an adequacy decision in relation to the United States. The adequacy decision concludes that the United States ensures an adequate level of protection for personal data transferred from the European Union to organizations in the United States that are included in the "Data Privacy Framework List," maintained and made publicly available by the United States Department of Commerce pursuant to the EU-U.S. DPF. The implementation of the EU-U.S. DPF and the adequacy decision are important and welcome milestones, and we are implementing steps to comply with the above corrective orders following engagement with the IDPC. If we are required to take additional steps to comply with the corrective orders, this could increase the cost and complexity of delivering our products and services in Europe. Furthermore, the EU-U.S. DPF replaces 

Table of Contents 

two prior adequacy frameworks which were invalidated by the CJEU. A further invalidation of the EU-U.S. DPF by the CJEU could create considerable uncertainty and lead to us being unable to offer a number of our most significant products and services, including Facebook and Instagram, in Europe, which would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 

We have been subject to other significant legislative and regulatory developments, which together with proposed or new legislation and regulations could significantly affect our business in the future. For example, we have implemented a number of product changes and controls as a result of requirements under the GDPR, and may implement additional changes in the future. The GDPR also requires submission of personal data breach notifications to our lead European Union privacy regulator, the IDPC, and includes significant penalties for non-compliance with the notification obligation as well as other requirements of the regulation. The interpretation of the GDPR is still evolving, including through decisions of the CJEU, and draft decisions in investigations by the IDPC are subject to review by other European privacy regulators as part of the GDPR's consistency mechanism, which may lead to significant changes in the final outcome of such investigations. As a result, the interpretation and enforcement of the GDPR, as well as the imposition and amount of penalties for non-compliance, are subject to significant uncertainty, and as it evolves, could potentially have a negative impact on our business and/or our operations. In addition, Brazil, the United Kingdom, and other countries have enacted similar data protection regulations imposing data privacy-related requirements on products and services offered to users in their respective jurisdictions. The California Consumer Privacy Act, as amended by the California Privacy Rights Act, and similar laws recently enacted by other states also establish certain transparency rules and create certain data privacy rights for users. Some states have also proposed or enacted laws specifically focused on the privacy rights and controls for users under 18 years old and their parents or guardians. Like comprehensive privacy laws, these laws are evolving and subject to interpretation, and may restrict our ability to offer certain products and services provided to all or certain cohorts of users in those states, adversely affecting our advertising business. In addition, the European Union's ePrivacy Directive and national implementation laws impose additional limitations on the use of data across messaging products and include significant penalties for non-compliance. Changes to our products or business practices as a result of these or similar developments have adversely affected, and may in the future adversely affect, our advertising business. For example, in response to regulatory developments in Europe, we announced plans to change the legal basis for behavioral advertising on Facebook and Instagram in the EU, EEA, and Switzerland from "legitimate interests" to "consent," and in November 2023 we began offering users in the region a "subscription for no ads" alternative. We are continuing to engage with regulators on our new consent model, including regarding compliance with requirements under the GDPR, Digital Markets Act (DMA), and EU consumer laws. These or any similar developments in the future may negatively impact our user growth and engagement, revenue, and financial results. Similarly, there are a number of legislative proposals or recently enacted laws in the European Union, the United States, at both the federal and state level, as well as other jurisdictions that could impose new obligations or limitations in areas affecting our business. For example, the DMA in the European Union imposes new restrictions and requirements on companies like ours, including in areas such as the combination of data across services, mergers and acquisitions, and product design. The DMA also includes significant penalties for non-compliance, and its key requirements will be enforceable against designated gatekeeper companies beginning in March 2024. The DMA has caused, and may in the future cause, us to incur significant compliance costs and make changes to our products or business practices. The requirements under the DMA will likely be subject to further interpretation and regulatory engagement. Pending or future proposals to modify competition laws in the United States and other jurisdictions could have similar effects. We are also subject to content-related legislation such as the Digital Services Act (DSA) in the European Union, which started to apply to our business as of August 2023, imposes certain restrictions and requirements for our products and services, and subjects us to increased compliance costs. The DSA also includes significant penalties for non-compliance. In addition, some countries, such as India and Turkey, are considering or have passed legislation implementing data protection requirements, new competition requirements, or requiring local storage and processing of data or similar requirements that could require substantial changes to our products, increase the cost and complexity of delivering our services, cause us to cease the offering of our products and services in certain countries, and/or result in fines or other penalties. New legislation or regulatory decisions that restrict our ability to collect and use information about minors may also result in limitations on our advertising services or our ability to offer products and services to minors in certain jurisdictions. 

We are, and expect to continue to be, the subject of investigations, inquiries, data requests, requests for information, actions, and audits by government authorities and regulators in the United States, Europe, and around the world, particularly in the areas of privacy, data use and data protection, including with respect to processing of sensitive data, data from third parties, data for advertising purposes, data security, minors, safety, law enforcement, consumer protection, civil rights, content moderation, use of our platform for illegal, illicit, or otherwise objectionable activity, competition, AI, and machine learning. We are also currently, and may in the future be, subject to regulatory orders or consent decrees, including the modified consent order we entered into with the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (FTC), which took effect in April 2020 and, 

Table of Contents 

among other things, required us to significantly enhance our practices and processes for privacy compliance and oversight. The FTC also continues to monitor us and our compliance with the modified consent order and initiated an administrative proceeding against us, which we are challenging, that alleges deficient compliance and violations of the Children's Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA), the COPPA Rule, and Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act and seeks changes to our business. If we are unsuccessful in our challenge to the FTC's action and the agency imposes its proposed order in its current form, we would be subject to significant limitations, including on our ability to launch new and modified products or use data of users under 18 years old. Orders issued by, or inquiries or enforcement actions initiated by, government or regulatory authorities could cause us to incur substantial costs, expose us to civil and criminal liability (including liability for our personnel) or penalties (including substantial monetary remedies), interrupt or require us to change our business practices in a manner materially adverse to our business (including changes to our products or user data practices), result in negative publicity and reputational harm, divert resources and the time and attention of management from our business, or subject us to other structural or behavioral remedies that adversely affect our business. 

For additional information about government regulation applicable to our business, see Part I, Item 1A, "Risk Factors" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Human Capital 

At Meta, everything we do is about helping people feel connected and closer, and we are proud of our unique company culture. 

We had a global workforce of 67,317 employees as of December 31, 2023, and we have offices in approximately 90 cities around the world. We are committed to fostering an enriching environment for our workforce and we are focused on supporting our people in doing the best work of their careers. We offer competitive compensation and a wide range of benefits, including many learning and development resources, and we work to build a diverse and inclusive workplace. 

Beginning in November 2022, we took a number of steps to reduce our expense base. For example, our cost reduction efforts have included scaling back budgets, reducing company perks, shrinking our real estate footprint, and employee layoffs and restructurings. We make it a priority to treat outgoing employees with respect and provide a generous severance package. For U.S. employees, that includes severance of 16 weeks of base pay plus two additional weeks for every year of service, payment for all remaining paid time off, restricted stock unit vesting through their last day on payroll, health insurance, coverage of the cost of healthcare for employees and their families for six months, career services that included three months of career support with an external vendor and early access to unpublished job leads, immigration support that included dedicated immigration specialists to help guide employees based on their needs. We offer similar support for outgoing employees outside of the United States while taking into account local employment laws. 

Employee Learning and Development 

We value our investment in growing and keeping a highly skilled workforce. We aim to provide all of our employees with regular performance reviews twice a year as we believe it is an important part of how we support their growth and career development while also recognizing and rewarding their impact at Meta. We also offer career development opportunities and work experience programs that extend beyond the physical and virtual classroom. To do this, we utilize various learning modalities, such as live virtual and in-person learning experiences, on-demand e-learning, self-service resources, learning communities, and coaching engagements. 

The Pulse of Our Workforce 

Each year, we conduct company-wide employee surveys to help us understand how employees feel about working at Meta and what we can do to improve their experience. Our surveys help us measure company, manager, team, and personal experience over time. Further, our more frequent surveys, such as those that have been administered daily to an ongoing random sample of employees, allow us to measure real-time sentiment around emerging events and company changes. These surveys are designed to invite feedback and actionable suggestions, inform decisions, and drive change across the company. In 2024, we expect to update our listening strategy and product capabilities, based on feedback from key groups, to further improve actionability and impact. 

Table of Contents 

Compensation, Benefits, Health, and Well-being 

We offer competitive compensation to attract and retain the best people, and we help care for our people so they can focus on our mission. Our employees' total compensation package includes market-competitive salary, bonuses or sales incentives, and equity. We generally offer full-time employees equity at the time of hire and through annual equity grants because we want them to be owners of the company and committed to our long-term success. We have conducted pay equity analyses for many years, and continue to be committed to pay equity. For example, in July 2023, we announced that our analyses confirm that we continue to have pay equity across genders globally and by race in the United States for people in similar jobs, accounting for factors such as location, role, and level. 

Through Life@ Meta, our holistic approach to benefits, we continue to provide our employees and their dependents with resources to help them thrive. We offer a wide range of benefits across areas such as health, family, finance, community, and time away, including family building benefits, family care resources, retirement savings plans, access to legal services, Meta Resource Groups to build community at Meta, and health and well-being benefits. 

Our health and well-being programs are designed to give employees a choice of flexible benefits to help them reach their personal well-being goals. Our programs are tailored to help boost employee physical and mental health, create financial peace of mind, provide support for families, and help employees build a strong community. Programs are designed and funded to support needs like autism care, cancer care, transgender services, holistic well-being, including mental health programs and retirement savings, which represent a few of the ways we support our employees and their dependents. 

Diverse and Inclusive Workplace 

We work to build a diverse and inclusive workplace where we can leverage our collective cognitive diversity to build the best products and make the best decisions for the global community we serve. 

In our 2023 Responsible Business Practices Report, we published our global diversity and U.S. ethnic diversity workforce data. As of December 31, 2022, our global employee base was composed of 45.4% underrepresented people, with 47.9% underrepresented people in the U.S., and 43.1% of our leaders in the U.S. being people of color. As published in our 2023 Responsible Business Practices Report, people with disabilities now represent 7.2% of our U.S. workforce, and based on voluntary self-identification, veterans represented 2.3% and members of the LGBTQ+ community make up 9.8% of our U.S. workforce. 

We want our products to work for people around the world and we need to grow and keep the best talent in order to do that. We also remain committed to having a skilled, inclusive and diverse workforce because we believe cognitive diversity fuels innovation. To aid in this effort, we have taken steps to reduce bias from our hiring processes and performance management systems, as well as offering learning and development courses for our employees. 

Corporate Information 

We were incorporated in Delaware in July 2004. We completed our initial public offering in May 2012 and our Class A common stock is currently listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol "META." Our principal executive offices are located at 1 Meta Way, Menlo Park, California 94025, and our telephone number is (650) 543-4800. 

Meta, the Meta logo, Meta Quest, Meta Horizon, Facebook, FB, Instagram, Oculus, WhatsApp, Reels, and our other registered or common law trademarks, service marks, or trade names appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are the property of Meta Platforms, Inc. or its affiliates. Other trademarks, service marks, or trade names appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10&#8209;K are the property of their respective owners. 

Available Information 

Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), are filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We are subject to the informational requirements of the Exchange Act and file or furnish reports, proxy statements, and other information with the SEC. Such reports and other information filed by us with the SEC are available free of charge on our website at investor.fb.com when such reports are 

Table of Contents 

available on the SEC's website. We use our investor.fb.com and about.fb.com/news/ websites as well as Mark Zuckerberg's Facebook Page (www.facebook.com/zuck), Instagram account (www.instagram.com/zuck), and Threads profile (www.threads.net/zuck) as means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. 

The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. 

The contents of the websites referred to above are not incorporated into this filing. Further, our references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 

Table of Contents 



Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations:
 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

You should read the following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition to our historical consolidated financial information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates, and beliefs. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, particularly in Part I, Item 1A, "Risk Factors." For a discussion of limitations in the measurement of certain of our community metrics, see the section entitled "Limitations of Key Metrics and Other Data" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

To supplement our consolidated financial statements, which are prepared and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP), we present revenue on a constant currency basis and free cash flow, which are non-GAAP financial measures. Revenue on a constant currency basis is presented in the section entitled " &#8212; Revenue &#8212; Foreign Exchange Impact on Revenue." To calculate revenue on a constant currency basis, we translated revenue for the full year 2023 using 2022 monthly exchange rates for our settlement or billing currencies other than the U.S. dollar. For a full description of our free cash flow non-GAAP measure, see the section entitled " &#8212; Liquidity and Capital Resources&#8212;Free Cash Flow." 

These non-GAAP financial measures are not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for, or superior to, financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP. These measures may be different from non&#8209;GAAP financial measures used by other companies, limiting their usefulness for comparison purposes. Moreover, presentation of revenue on a constant currency basis is provided for year-over-year comparison purposes, and investors should be cautioned that the effect of changing foreign currency exchange rates has an actual effect on our operating results. We believe these non-GAAP financial measures provide investors with useful supplemental information about the financial performance of our business, enable comparison of financial results between periods where certain items may vary independent of business performance, and allow for greater transparency with respect to key metrics used by management in operating our business. 

Executive Overview of Full Year 2023 Results 

Our mission is to give people the power to build community and bring the world closer together. 

Our financial results and key community metrics for 2023 are set forth below. Our total revenue for 2023 was $134.90 billion, an increase of 16% compared to 2022, due to an increase in advertising revenue. Revenue on a constant currency basis would have increased 15% compared to 2022. Ad impressions delivered across our Family of Apps increased 28% year-over-year in 2023, partially offset by a 9% year-over-year decrease in the average price per ad. 

Income from operations for 2023 was $46.75 billion, an increase of $17.81 billion, or 62%, compared to 2022, driven by an increase in advertising revenue. 

Table of Contents 

Consolidated and Segment Results 

We report our financial results for our two reportable segments: Family of Apps (FoA) and Reality Labs (RL). FoA includes Facebook, Instagram, Messenger, WhatsApp, and other services. RL includes our augmented, mixed and virtual reality related consumer hardware, software, and content. 

##TABLE_START Family of Apps Reality Labs Total Year Ended December 31, Year Ended December 31, Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 % change 2023 2022 % change 2023 2022 % change (in millions, except percentages) Revenue $ 133,006 $ 114,450 16% $ 1,896 $ 2,159 (12)% $ 134,902 $ 116,609 16% Costs and expenses $ 70,135 $ 71,789 (2)% $ 18,016 $ 15,876 13% $ 88,151 $ 87,665 1% Income (loss) from operations $ 62,871 $ 42,661 47% $ (16,120) $ (13,717) (18)% $ 46,751 $ 28,944 62% Operating margin 47 % 37 % (850) % (635) % 35 % 25 % ##TABLE_END 

&#8226; Net income was $39.10 billion, with diluted earnings per share (EPS) of $14.87 for the year ended December 31, 2023. 

&#8226; Capital expenditures, including principal payments on finance leases, were $28.10 billion for the year ended December 31, 2023. 

&#8226; Effective tax rate was 17.6% for the year ended December 31, 2023. 

&#8226; Cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities were $65.40 billion as of December 31, 2023. 

&#8226; Long-term debt was $18.39 billion as of December 31, 2023. 

&#8226; Headcount was 67,317 as of December 31, 2023, a decrease of 22% year-over-year. 

Dividend 

Prior to 2024, we had never declared or paid any cash dividend on our common stock. On February 1, 2024 we announced the initiation of our first ever cash dividend program. This cash dividend of $0.50 per share of Class A common stock and Class B common stock (together, the &#8220;common stock&#8221;) is equivalent to $2.00 per share on an annual basis. The first cash dividend will be paid on March 26, 2024 to all holders of record of common stock at the close of business on February 22, 2024. 

Table of Contents 

Restructuring 

Beginning in 2022, we initiated several measures to pursue greater efficiency and to realign our business and strategic priorities. As of December 31, 2023, we have completed the data center initiatives and the employee layoffs, and substantially completed the facilities consolidation initiatives. 

A summary of our restructuring charges, including subsequent adjustments, for the year ended December 31, 2023 by major activity type is as follows (in millions): 

##TABLE_START Year Ended December 31, 2023 Facilities Consolidation Severance and Other Personnel Costs Data Center Assets Total Cost of revenue $ 177 $ &#8212; $ (224) $ (47) Research and development 1,581 413 &#8212; 1,994 Marketing and sales 396 307 &#8212; 703 General and administrative 352 450 &#8212; 802 Total $ 2,506 $ 1,170 $ (224) $ 3,452 ##TABLE_END

During 2023 and 2022, we recognized total pre-tax restructuring charges of $2.84 billion and $4.10 billion under our FoA segment, and $612 million and $515 million under our RL segment, respectively. 

See Note 3 &#8212; Restructuring in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding restructuring charges. 

Family of Apps Metrics 

&#8226; Family daily active people (DAP) was 3.19 billion on average for December 2023, an increase of 8% year-over-year. 

&#8226; Family monthly active people (MAP) was 3.98 billion as of December 31, 2023, an increase of 6% year-over-year. 

&#8226; Facebook daily active users (DAUs) were 2.11 billion on average for December 2023, an increase of 6% year-over-year. 

&#8226; Facebook monthly active users (MAUs) were 3.07 billion as of December 31, 2023, an increase of 3% year-over-year. 

&#8226; Ad impressions delivered across our Family of Apps increased by 28% year-over-year in 2023, and the average price per ad decreased by 9% year-over-year in 2023. 

Beginning with our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q to be filed for the first quarter of 2024, we will no longer report DAUs, MAUs, ARPU, and MAP in our periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We intend to begin reporting year-over-year percentage changes in ad impressions delivered and the average price per ad by geographic region, while continuing to report DAP and ARPP (calculated based on DAP), beginning with our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q to be filed for the first quarter of 2024. For additional information, see the section entitled "Limitations of Key Metrics and Other Data" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Developments in Advertising 

Substantially all of our revenue is currently generated from advertising on Facebook and Instagram. We rely on targeting and measurement tools that incorporate data signals from user activity on websites and services that we do not control in order to deliver relevant and effective ads to our users. Our advertising revenue has been, and we expect will continue to be, adversely affected by reduced marketer spending as a result of limitations on our ad targeting and measurement tools arising from changes to the regulatory environment and third-party mobile operating systems and browsers. 

In particular, legislative and regulatory developments such as the General Data Protection Regulation, including its evolving interpretation through decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union, ePrivacy Directive, the European Digital Services Act, and U.S. state privacy laws including the California Consumer Privacy Act, as amended by the California Privacy Rights Act, have impacted our ability to use data signals in our ad products, and we expect these and other 

Table of Contents 

developments such as the Digital Markets Act will have further impact in the future. As a result, we have implemented, and we will continue to implement, whether voluntarily or otherwise, changes to our products and user data practices, which reduce our ability to effectively target and measure ads. For example, in response to regulatory developments in Europe, we announced our plans to change the legal basis for behavioral advertising on Facebook and Instagram in the EU, European Economic Area, and Switzerland from "legitimate interests" to "consent," and began offering users in the region a "subscription for no ads" alternative. We are continuing to engage with regulators on our new consent model. In addition, mobile operating system and browser providers, such as Apple and Google, have implemented product changes and/or announced future plans to limit the ability of websites and application developers to collect and use these signals to target and measure advertising. For example, in 2021, Apple made certain changes to its products and data use policies in connection with changes to its iOS operating system that reduce our and other iOS developers' ability to target and measure advertising, which has negatively impacted, and we expect will continue to negatively impact, the size of the budgets marketers are willing to commit to us and other advertising platforms. 

To mitigate these developments, we are continually working to evolve our advertising systems to improve the performance of our ad products. We are developing privacy enhancing technologies to deliver relevant ads and measurement capabilities while reducing the amount of personal information we process, including by relying more on anonymized or aggregated third-party data. In addition, we are developing tools that enable marketers to share their data into our systems, as well as ad products that generate more valuable signals within our apps. More broadly, we also continue to innovate our advertising tools to help marketers prepare campaigns and connect with consumers, including developing growing formats such as Reels ads and our business messaging ad products. Across all of these efforts, we are making significant investments in artificial intelligence (AI), including generative AI, to improve our delivery, targeting, and measurement capabilities. Further, we are focused on driving onsite conversions in our business messaging ad products by developing new features and scaling existing features. 

We are also engaging with others across our industry to explore the possibility of new open standards for the private and secure processing of data for advertising purposes. We believe our ongoing improvements to ad targeting and measurement are continuing to drive improved results for advertisers. However, we expect that some of these efforts will be long-term initiatives, and that the legislative, regulatory and platform developments described above will continue to adversely impact our advertising revenue for the foreseeable future. 

Other Business and Macroeconomic Conditions 

Other global and regional business, macroeconomic, and geopolitical conditions also have had, and we believe will continue to have, an impact on our user growth and engagement and advertising revenue. In particular, we believe advertising budgets have been pressured from time to time by factors such as inflation, rising interest rates, and related market uncertainty, which has led to reduced marketer spending. While we saw improvement in business and macroeconomic conditions in 2023, continued business, macroeconomic, and geopolitical uncertainty remains, which could impact our financial results in future periods. In addition, competitive products and services have reduced some users' engagement with our products and services. We are investing in Reels and in AI initiatives across our products, including our AI-powered discovery engine to recommend relevant content, which we have already seen results in improved user engagement and monetization of our products. While Reels is growing in usage, it monetizes at a lower rate than our feed and Stories products and we expect it will continue to monetize at a lower rate for the foreseeable future. We also have seen fluctuations and declines in the size of our active user base in one or more regions from time to time. For example, in connection with the war in Ukraine, access to Facebook and Instagram was restricted in Russia and the services were then prohibited by the Russian government, which continued to adversely affect user growth and engagement in 2023. These trends adversely affected advertising revenue in 2023, and we expect will continue to affect our advertising revenue in the foreseeable future. 

Although we regularly evaluate a variety of sources to understand trends in our advertising revenue, we do not have perfect visibility into the factors driving advertiser spending decisions and our assessments involve complex judgments about what is driving advertising decisions across a large and diversified advertiser base across the globe. Trends impacting advertising spend are also dynamic and interrelated. As a result, it is difficult to identify with precision which advertiser spending decisions are attributable to which trends, and we are unable to quantify the exact impact that each trend had on our advertising revenue during the periods presented. 

Table of Contents 

Investment Philosophy 

We expect to continue to build on the discipline and habits that we developed in 2022 when we initiated several efforts to increase our operating efficiency, while still remaining focused on investing in significant opportunities. In 2023, 80% of our total costs and expenses were recognized in FoA and 20% were recognized in RL. Our FoA investments include expenses relating to headcount, data centers, and technical infrastructure as part of our efforts to develop our apps and our advertising services. These efforts include significant investments in AI initiatives, including to recommend relevant content across our products, enhance our advertising tools, develop new products, and develop new features for existing products using generative AI. 

We are also making significant investments in our metaverse efforts, including developing virtual, augmented, and mixed reality devices, software for social platforms, neural interfaces, and other foundational technologies for the metaverse. Our RL investments include expenses relating to technology development across these efforts. Many of our RL investments are directed toward long-term, cutting-edge research and development for products for the metaverse that may only be fully realized in the next decade. In 2023, our RL segment reduced our overall operating profit by approximately $16.12 billion, and we expect our RL operating losses to increase meaningfully in 2024. We expect this will be a complex, evolving, and long-term initiative, and our ability to support our metaverse efforts is dependent on generating sufficient profits from other areas of our business. We are investing now because we believe this is the next chapter of the internet and will unlock monetization opportunities for businesses, developers, and creators, including around advertising, hardware, and digital goods. 

Table of Contents 

Trends in Our Family Metrics 

The numbers for our key Family metrics, our DAP, MAP, and average revenue per person (ARPP), do not include users on our other products unless they would otherwise qualify as DAP or MAP, respectively, based on their other activities on our Family products. 

Trends in the number of people in our community affect our revenue and financial results by influencing the number of ads we are able to show, the value of our ads to marketers, as well as our expenses and capital expenditures. Substantially all of our daily and monthly active people (as defined below) access our Family products on mobile devices. 

&#8226; Daily Active People (DAP). We define a daily active person as a registered and logged-in user of Facebook, Instagram, Messenger, and/or WhatsApp (collectively, our "Family" of products) who visited at least one of these Family products through a mobile device application or using a web or mobile browser on a given day. We do not require people to use a common identifier or link their accounts to use multiple products in our Family, and therefore must seek to attribute multiple user accounts within and across products to individual people. Our calculations of DAP rely upon complex techniques, algorithms, and machine learning models that seek to estimate the underlying number of unique people using one or more of these products, including by matching user accounts within an individual product and across multiple products when we believe they are attributable to a single person, and counting such group of accounts as one person. As these techniques and models require significant judgment, are developed based on internal reviews of limited samples of user accounts, and are calibrated against user survey data, there is necessarily some margin of error in our estimates. We view DAP, and DAP as a percentage of MAP, as measures of engagement across our products. For additional information, see the section entitled "Limitations of Key Metrics and Other Data" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

------ DAP/MAP: ------ 79% ------- 79% -------- 79% -------- 79% --------- 79% -------- 79% -------- 79% -------- 79% -------- 80% 

Note: We report the numbers of DAP and MAP as specific amounts, but these numbers are estimates of the numbers of unique people using our products and are subject to statistical variances and errors. While we expect the error margin for these estimates to vary from period to period, we estimate that such margin generally will be approximately 3% of our worldwide MAP. At our scale, it is very difficult to attribute multiple user accounts within and across products to individual people, and it is possible that the actual numbers of unique people using our products may vary significantly from our estimates, potentially beyond our estimated error margins. For additional information, see the section entitled "Limitations of Key Metrics and Other Data" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In the third quarter of 2022, we updated our Family metrics calculations to maintain calibration of our models against recent user survey data, and we estimate such update contributed an aggregate of approximately 30 million DAP to our reported worldwide DAP in September 2022. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2023, our Family metrics no longer include Messenger Kids users. 

Worldwide DAP increased 8% to 3.19 billion on average during December 2023 from 2.96 billion during December 2022. 

Table of Contents 

&#8226; Monthly Active People (MAP). We define a monthly active person as a registered and logged-in user of one or more Family products who visited at least one of these Family products through a mobile device application or using a web or mobile browser in the last 30 days as of the date of measurement. We do not require people to use a common identifier or link their accounts to use multiple products in our Family, and therefore must seek to attribute multiple user accounts within and across products to individual people. Our calculations of MAP rely upon complex techniques, algorithms, and machine learning models that seek to estimate the underlying number of unique people using one or more of these products, including by matching user accounts within an individual product and across multiple products when we believe they are attributable to a single person, and counting such group of accounts as one person. As these techniques and models require significant judgment, are developed based on internal reviews of limited samples of user accounts, and are calibrated against user survey data, there is necessarily some margin of error in our estimates. We view MAP as a measure of the size of our global active community of people using our products. For additional information, see the section entitled "Limitations of Key Metrics and Other Data" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Note: We report the numbers of DAP and MAP as specific amounts, but these numbers are estimates of the numbers of unique people using our products and are subject to statistical variances and errors. While we expect the error margin for these estimates to vary from period to period, we estimate that such margin generally will be approximately 3% of our worldwide MAP. At our scale, it is very difficult to attribute multiple user accounts within and across products to individual people, and it is possible that the actual numbers of unique people using our products may vary significantly from our estimates, potentially beyond our estimated error margins. For additional information, see the section entitled "Limitations of Key Metrics and Other Data" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In the third quarter of 2022, we updated our Family metrics calculations to maintain calibration of our models against recent user survey data, and we estimate such update contributed an aggregate of approximately 40 million MAP to our reported worldwide MAP in September 2022. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2023, our Family metrics no longer include Messenger Kids users. 

As of December 31, 2023, we had 3.98 billion MAP, an increase of 6% from 3.74 billion as of December 31, 2022. 

Table of Contents 

&#8226; Average Revenue Per Person (ARPP). We define ARPP as our total revenue during a given quarter, divided by the average of the number of MAP at the beginning and end of the quarter. While ARPP includes all sources of revenue, the number of MAP used in this calculation only includes users of our Family products as described in the definition of MAP above. We estimate that the share of revenue from users who are not also MAP was not material. 

##TABLE_START ARPP: $9.39 $7.72 $7.91 $7.53 $8.63 $7.59 $8.32 $8.71 $10.10 

Ad Revenue 

Non-Ad Revenue ##TABLE_END

Note: Non-advertising revenue includes RL revenue generated from the delivery of consumer hardware products and FoA Other revenue, which consists of revenue from WhatsApp Business Platform, net fees we receive from developers using our Payments infrastructure, and revenue from various other sources. Beginning with our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q to be filed for the first quarter of 2024, we intend to report ARPP based on DAP instead of MAP. 

Our annual worldwide ARPP in 2023, which represents the sum of quarterly ARPP during such period, was $34.72, an increase of 9% from 2022. 

Table of Contents 

Trends in Our Facebook User Metrics 

The numbers for our key Facebook metrics, our DAUs, MAUs, and average revenue per user (ARPU), do not include users on Instagram, WhatsApp, or our other products, unless they would otherwise qualify as DAUs or MAUs, respectively, based on their other activities on Facebook. 

Trends in the number of users affect our revenue and financial results by influencing the number of ads we are able to show, the value of our ads to marketers, as well as our expenses and capital expenditures. Substantially all of our daily and monthly active users (as defined below) access Facebook on mobile devices. 

&#8226; Daily Active Users (DAUs). We define a daily active user as a registered and logged-in Facebook user who visited Facebook through our website or a mobile device, or used our Messenger application (and is also a registered Facebook user), on a given day. We view DAUs, and DAUs as a percentage of MAUs, as measures of user engagement on Facebook. 

---- 

DAU/MAU: -- 66% ------ 67% ------ 67% ------ 67% ------ 67% ------ 68% ------ 68% ----- 68% ------ 69% - 

- - 

DAU/MAU: -- 74% ----- 75% ------ 75% ------ 74% ------ 75% ----- 74% ------ 75% ------ 75% ------ 75% ---- DAU/MAU: - 72% ------ 73% ------ 74% ----- 74% ------ 75% ------ 75% ------ 75% ------ 75% ------ 75% --- 

- - 

DAU/MAU: -- 63% ----- 64% ------ 64% ------ 64% ------ 65% ----- 66% ------ 66% ------ 66% ------ 67% ---- DAU/MAU: - 65% ------ 66% ------ 66% ----- 66% ------ 66% ------ 67% ------ 66% ------ 67% ------ 67% --- 

Note: For purposes of reporting DAUs, MAUs, and ARPU by geographic region, Europe includes all users in Russia and Turkey and Rest of World includes all users in Africa, Latin America, and the Middle East. 

Table of Contents 

Worldwide DAUs increased 6% to 2.11 billion on aver age during December 2023 from 2.00 billion during December 2022 . Users in India, Bangladesh, and Nigeria repr esented the top three sources of growth in DAUs during December 2023, relative to the same period in 2022. 

&#8226; Monthly Active Users (MAUs). We define a monthly active user as a registered and logged-in Facebook user who visited Facebook through our website or a mobile device, or used our Messenger application (and is also a registered Facebook user), in the last 30 days as of the date of measurement. MAUs are a measure of the size of our global active user community on Facebook. 

As of December 31, 2023, we had 3.07 billion MAUs, an increase of 3% from December 31, 2022. Users in India, Bangladesh, and Nigeria represented the top three sources of growth in 2023, relative to the same period in 2022. 

Table of Contents 

Trends in Our Monetization by Facebook User Geography 

We calculate our revenue by user geography based on our estimate of the geography in which ad impressions are delivered, virtual and digital goods are purchased, or consumer hardware products are shipped. We define ARPU as our total revenue in a given geography during a given quarter, divided by the average of the number of MAUs in the geography at the beginning and end of the quarter. While ARPU includes all sources of revenue, the number of MAUs used in this calculation only includes users of Facebook and Messenger as described in the definition of MAU above. While the share of revenue from users who are not also Facebook or Messenger MAUs has grown over time, we estimate that revenue from users who are Facebook or Messenger MAUs represents the substantial majority of our total revenue. See "Average Revenue Per Person (ARPP)" above for our estimates of trends in our monetization of our Family products. The geography of our users affects our revenue and financial results because we currently monetize users in different geographies at different average rates. Our revenue and ARPU in regions such as United States &#38; Canada and Europe are relatively higher primarily due to the size and maturity of those online and mobile advertising markets. For example, ARPU in 2023 in the United States &#38; Canada region was more than 11 times higher than in the Asia-Pacific region. 

--- ARPU: -- $11.57 --- $9.54 --- $9.82 --- $9.41 --- $10.86 ---- $9.62 ---- $10.63 ---- $11.23 --- $13.12 - 

- 

-- ARPU: -- $60.57 -- $48.29 -- $50.25 -- $49.13 --- $58.77 -- $48.85 --- $53.53 --- $56.11 --- $68.44 -------- ARPU: -- $19.68 -- $15.35 -- $15.64 -- $14.23 -- $17.29 --- $15.51 -- $17.88 --- $19.04 --- $23.14 

- ARPU: -- $4.89 ---- $4.47 ---- $4.54 ---- $4.42 ---- $4.61 ---- $4.52 ---- $4.88 ----- $5.12 ---- $5.52 ------- ARPU: -- $3.43 ----- $3.14 ---- $3.35 ---- $3.21 ---- $3.52 ---- $3.35 ---- $3.76 ----- $4.22 ---- $4.50 

##TABLE_START 

Ad Revenue 

Non-Ad Revenue ##TABLE_END

Note: Non-advertising revenue includes RL revenue generated from the delivery of consumer hardware products and FoA Other revenue, which consists of revenue from WhatsApp Business Platform, net fees we receive from developers using our Payments infrastructure, and revenue from various other sources. 

Table of Contents 

Our revenue by user geography in the charts above is geographically apportioned based on our estimation of the geographic location of our users when they perform a revenue-generating activity. This allocation differs from our revenue disaggregated by geography disclosure in Note 2 &#8212; Revenue in our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplemental Data" where revenue is geographically apportioned based on the addresses of our customers. 

Our annual worldwide ARPU in 2023, which represents the sum of quarterly ARPU during such period, was $44.60, an increase of 13% from 2022. For 2023, ARPU increased by 21% in Europe, 20% in Rest of World, 11% in Asia-Pacific, and 10% in United States &#38; Canada. User growth was mostly in geographies with relatively lower ARPU, such as Asia&#8209;Pacific and Rest of World. We expect that user growth in the future will be primarily concentrated in those regions where ARPU is relatively lower, such that worldwide ARPU may continue to increase at a slower rate relative to ARPU in any geographic region in a particular period, or potentially decrease even if ARPU increases in each geographic region. 

Table of Contents 

Critical Accounting Estimates 

Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our accounting estimates based on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. The actual impact on our financial performance could differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. 

An accounting estimate is considered critical if both (i) the nature of the estimates or assumptions is material due to the levels of subjectivity and judgment involved, and (ii) the impact within a reasonable range of outcomes of the estimates and assumptions is material to our consolidated financial statements. We believe that the estimates and assumptions associated with loss contingencies, income taxes, and valuation of assets, when applicable, have the greatest potential impact on our consolidated financial statements. Therefore, we consider these to be our critical accounting estimates. For further information on all of our significant accounting policies, see Note 1 &#8212; Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Loss Contingencies 

We are involved in legal proceedings, claims, and regulatory, tax or government inquiries and investigations that arise in the ordinary course of business. Certain of these matters include speculative claims for substantial or indeterminate amounts of damages. Additionally, we are required to comply with various legal and regulatory obligations around the world, and we regularly become subject to new laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. The requirements for complying with these obligations may be uncertain and subject to interpretation and enforcement by regulatory and other authorities, and any failure to comply with such obligations could eventually lead to asserted legal or regulatory action. With respect to these matters, asserted and unasserted, we evaluate the associated developments on a regular basis and accrue a liability when we believe that it is both probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. 

We review the developments in our contingencies that could affect the amount of the provisions that have been previously recorded, and the matters and related reasonably possible losses disclosed. We make adjustments to our provisions and changes to our disclosures accordingly to reflect the merits of our defenses and the impact of negotiations, settlements, regulatory proceedings, rulings, advice of legal counsel, and updated information. Significant judgment is required to determine the probability of loss and the estimated amount of loss, including when and if the probability and estimate has changed for asserted and unasserted matters. Certain factors, in particular, have resulted in significant changes to these estimates and judgments in prior quarters based on updated information available. For example, in certain jurisdictions where we operate, fines and penalties may be the result of new laws and preliminary interpretations regarding the basis of assessing damages, which may make it difficult to estimate what such fines and penalties would amount to if successfully asserted against us. In addition, certain government inquiries and investigations, such as matters before our lead European Union privacy regulator, the Irish Data Protection Commission, are subject to review by other regulatory bodies before decisions are finalized, which can lead to significant changes in the outcome of an inquiry. As a result of these and other factors, we reasonably expect that our estimates and judgments with respect to our contingencies may continue to be revised in future quarters. 

The ultimate outcome of these matters, such as whether the likelihood of loss is remote, reasonably possible, or probable or if and when the reasonably possible range of loss is estimable, is inherently uncertain. Therefore, if one or more of these matters were resolved against us for amounts in excess of management's estimates of losses, our results of operations and financial condition, including in a particular reporting period in which any such outcome becomes probable and estimable, could be materially adversely affected. See Note 12 &#8212; Commitments and Contingencies and Note 15 &#8212; Income Taxes of the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" and Part I, Item 3, "Legal Proceedings" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding these contingencies. 

Income Taxes 

We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes and income tax assets and liabilities, including evaluating uncertainties in the application of accounting principles and complex tax laws. Our actual and forecasted income (loss) before 

Table of Contents 

provision is subject to change due to economic, political and other conditions and significant judgment is required in determining our ability to recognize our net deferred tax assets. 

We recognize tax benefits from uncertain tax positions only if we believe that it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities based on the technical merits of the position. These uncertain tax positions include our estimates for transfer pricing that have been developed based upon analyses of appropriate arms-length prices. Similarly, our estimates related to uncertain tax positions concerning research and development tax credits are based on an assessment of whether our available documentation corroborating the nature of our activities supporting the tax credits will be sufficient. Although we believe that we have adequately reserved for our uncertain tax positions (including net interest and penalties), we can provide no assurance that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be materially different, as significant judgment is required in evaluating and estimating our provision for income taxes. We make adjustments to these reserves in accordance with the income tax accounting guidance when facts and circumstances change, such as the closing of a tax audit or the refinement of an estimate. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts recorded, such differences will affect the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made, and could have a material impact on our financial condition and operating results. 

Valuation of Assets 

The valuation and impairment assessment of certain assets, including recoverability, requires significant judgment and assumptions such as estimation of future cash flows, discount rates, market data of comparable assets and companies, holding period and residual value of asset groups, among others. 

Impairment testing for long-lived-assets, including property and equipment and operating lease right-of-use assets, occurs whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable compared to the future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected to generate from the use and eventual disposition. The impairment test is performed at the asset group level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. When the test results indicate that the carrying amount of long-lived assets is not recoverable, the carrying amount of such assets is reduced to fair value. 

Impairment testing for non-marketable equity securities without readily determinable fair values accounted for using the measurement alternative, is performed at each reporting date to determine whether there are triggering events for impairment. Such qualitative assessment considers factors such as, but not limited to, the investee's financial condition and business outlook; industry and sector performance; regulatory, economic or technological environment; operational and financing cash flows; and other relevant events and factors affecting the investee. When indicators of impairment exist, we estimate the fair value of our non-marketable equity securities using the market approach and/or the income approach and recognize impairment loss in our consolidated statements of income if the estimated fair value is less than the carrying value. In addition, for these non-marketable equity securities, determining whether a non-marketable equity security issued by the same issuer is similar to the non-marketable equity security we hold may require judgment in (a) assessment of differences in rights and obligations associated with the instruments such as voting rights, distribution rights and preferences, and conversion features, and (b) adjustments to the observable price for differences such as, but not limited to, rights and obligations, control premium, liquidity, or principal or most advantageous markets. The identification of observable transactions will depend on the timely reporting of these transactions from our investee companies, which may occur in a period subsequent to when the transactions take place. Therefore, our fair value adjustment for these observable transactions may occur in a period subsequent to when the transaction actually occurred. 

Table of Contents 

Components of Results of Operations 

Revenue 

Family of Apps (FoA) 

Advertising. We generate substantially all of our revenue from advertising. Our advertising revenue is generated by displaying ad products on Facebook, Instagram, Messenger, and third-party mobile applications. Marketers pay for ad products either directly or through their relationships with advertising agencies or resellers, based on the number of impressions delivered or the number of actions, such as clicks, taken by users. 

We recognize revenue from the display of impression-based ads in the contracted period in which the impressions are delivered. Impressions are considered delivered when an ad is displayed to a user. We recognize revenue from the delivery of action-based ads in the period in which a user takes the action the marketer contracted for. The number of ads we show is subject to methodological changes as we continue to evolve our ads business and the structure of our ads products. In particular, the ads we show may vary by product (for example, our video and Reels products are not currently monetized at the same rate as our feed or Stories products), and from time to time we increase or decrease the number or frequency of ads we show as part of our product and monetization strategies. We calculate average price per ad as total advertising revenue divided by the number of ads delivered, representing the average price paid per ad by a marketer regardless of their desired objective such as impression or action. For advertising revenue arrangements where we are not the principal, we recognize revenue on a net basis. 

Other revenue. Other revenue consists of revenue from WhatsApp Business Platform, net fees we receive from developers using our Payments infrastructure and revenue from various other sources. 

Reality Labs (RL) 

RL revenue is generated from the delivery of consumer hardware products, such as Meta Quest, wearables, and related software and content. 

Cost of Revenue and Operating Expenses 

Cost of revenue. Our cost of revenue consists of expenses associated with the delivery and distribution of our products. These mainly include expenses related to the operation of our data centers and technical infrastructure, such as depreciation expense from servers, network infrastructure and buildings, as well as payroll and related expenses which include share-based compensation for employees on our operations teams, and energy and bandwidth costs. Cost of revenue also includes costs associated with partner arrangements, including traffic acquisition costs and credit card and other fees related to processing customer transactions; RL inventory costs, which consist of cost of products sold and estimated losses on non-cancelable contractual commitments; and content costs. 

Research and development. Research and development expenses consist mostly of payroll and related expenses which include share-based compensation, RL technology development costs, facilities-related costs for employees on our engineering and technical teams who are responsible for developing new products as well as improving existing products, and restructuring charges. 

Marketing and sales. Marketing and sales expenses consist mainly of marketing and promotional expenses as well as payroll and related expenses which include share-based compensation for our employees engaged in sales, sales support, marketing, business development, and customer service functions. Our marketing and sales expenses also include professional services such as content reviewers to support our community and product operations and restructuring charges. 

General and administrative. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of legal-related costs, which include estimated fines, settlements, or other losses in connection with legal and related matters, as well as other legal fees; payroll and related expenses which include share-based compensation for certain of our executives as well as our legal, finance, human resources, corporate communications and policy, and other administrative employees; other taxes, such as digital services taxes and other non-income-based tax levies; professional services and restructuring charges. 

Table of Contents 

Results of Operations 

In this section, we discuss the results of our operations for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. For a discussion of the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021, please refer to Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022. 

The following table sets forth our consolidated statements of income data (in millions): 

##TABLE_START Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 2021 Revenue $ 134,902 $ 116,609 $ 117,929 Costs and expenses: &#160; Cost of revenue 25,959 25,249 22,649 Research and development 38,483 35,338 24,655 Marketing and sales 12,301 15,262 14,043 General and administrative 11,408 11,816 9,829 Total costs and expenses 88,151 87,665 71,176 Income from operations 46,751 28,944 46,753 Interest and other income (expense), net 677 (125) 531 Income before provision for income taxes 47,428 28,819 47,284 Provision for income taxes 8,330 5,619 7,914 Net income $ 39,098 $ 23,200 $ 39,370 ##TABLE_END

The following table sets forth our consolidated statements of income data (as a percentage of revenue) (1) : 

##TABLE_START Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 2021 Revenue 100 % 100 % 100 % Costs and expenses: Cost of revenue 19 22 19 Research and development 29 30 21 Marketing and sales 9 13 12 General and administrative 8 10 8 Total costs and expenses 65 75 60 Income from operations 35 25 40 Interest and other income (expense), net 1 &#8212; &#8212; Income before provision for income taxes 35 25 40 Provision for income taxes 6 5 7 Net income 29 % 20 % 33 % ##TABLE_END

_________________________ 

(1) Percentages have been rounded for presentation purposes and may differ from unrounded results. 

Table of Contents 

Revenue 

The following table sets forth our revenue by source and by segment: 

##TABLE_START &#160; Year Ended December 31, &#160; 2023 2022 2021 2023 vs 2022 % change 2022 vs 2021 % change (in millions, except percentages) Advertising $ 131,948 $ 113,642 $ 114,934 16 % (1) % Other revenue 1,058 808 721 31 % 12 % Family of Apps 133,006 114,450 115,655 16 % (1) % Reality Labs 1,896 2,159 2,274 (12) % (5) % Total revenue $ 134,902 $ 116,609 $ 117,929 16 % (1) % ##TABLE_END

Family of Apps 

FoA revenue in 2023 increased $18.56 billion, or 16%, compared to 2022. The increase was almost entirely driven by advertising revenue. 

Advertising 

Advertising revenue in 2023 increased $18.31 billion, or 16%, compared to 2022 due to an increase in the number of ads delivered, partially offset by a decrease in the average price per ad. In 2023, the number of ads delivered increased by 28%, as compared with an 18% increase in 2022 as ads impressions grew in all regions during 2023, especially in Asia-Pacific and Rest of World. The increase in the ads delivered during 2023 was driven by increases in the number and frequency of ads displayed across our products and an increase in users. In 2023, the average price per ad decreased by 9%, as compared with a decrease of 16% in 2022. The decrease in average price per ad was driven by an increase in the number of ads delivered, especially in geographies and in products, such as Reels, that monetize at lower rates. While the average price per ad declined year-over-year, we believe the improvements to our ad targeting and measurement tools have had a favorable impact on our ad performance and advertising demand. Other factors are also discussed in the section entitled "&#8212;Executive Overview of Full Year 2023 Results." In addition, year-over-year advertising revenue growth for the full year 2023 was driven mainly by marketer spending in online commerce, which benefited from marketers based in China, consumer packaged goods, and entertainment and media. We anticipate that future advertising revenue will be driven by a combination of price and the number of ads delivered. 

Other revenue 

FoA other revenue in 2023 increased $250 million, or 31%, compared to 2022. The increase was mainly driven by WhatsApp Business Platform revenue. 

Reality Labs 

RL revenue in 2023 decreased $263 million, or 12%, compared to 2022. The decrease in RL revenue was mostly driven by a net decrease in the volume of Meta Quest sales. 

Revenue Seasonality 

Revenue is traditionally seasonally strong in the fourth quarter of each year due in part to seasonal holiday demand. We believe that this seasonality in both advertising revenue and RL consumer hardware sales affects our quarterly results, which generally reflect significant growth in revenue between the third and fourth quarters and a decline between the fourth and subsequent first quarters. For instance, our total revenue increased 17%, 16%, and 16% between the third and fourth quarters of 2023, 2022, and 2021, respectively, while total revenue for the first quarters of 2023, 2022, and 2021 declined 11%, 17%, and 7% compared to the fourth quarters of 2022, 2021, and 2020 respectively. 

Table of Contents 

Foreign Exchange Impact on Revenue 

Changes in foreign exchange rates had a favorable impact on our total revenue in the full year 2023 compared to the same period in 2022. If we had translated revenue for the full year 2023 using the prior year's monthly exchange rates for our settlement or billing currencies other than the U.S. dollar, our total revenue and advertising revenue would have been $134.53 billion and $131.57 billion, respectively. Using these constant rates, total revenue and advertising revenue would have been $374 million and $379 million lower than actual total revenue and advertising revenue, respectively, for the full year 2023. Using the same constant rates, full year 2023 total revenue and advertising revenue would have been $17.92 billion and $17.93 billion higher than actual total revenue and advertising revenue, respectively, for the full year 2022. 

Cost of revenue 

##TABLE_START Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 2021 2023 vs 2022 % change 2022 vs 2021 % change (in millions, except percentages) Cost of revenue $ 25,959 $ 25,249 $ 22,649 3 % 11 % Percentage of revenue 19 % 22 % 19 % ##TABLE_END

Cost of revenue in 2023 increased $710 million, or 3%, compared to 2022. The increase was primarily driven by higher operational expenses related to our data centers and technical infrastructure, partially offset by a decrease in data center abandonment charges related to restructuring and lower content costs. 

See Note 3 &#8212; Restructuring in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding restructuring charges. 

Research and development 

##TABLE_START Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 2021 2023 vs 2022 % change 2022 vs 2021 % change (in millions, except percentages) Research and development $ 38,483 $ 35,338 $ 24,655 9 % 43 % Percentage of revenue 29 % 30 % 21 % ##TABLE_END

Research and development expenses in 2023 increased $3.15 billion, or 9%, compared to 2022. The increase was primarily from higher payroll and related expenses driven by an increase in share-based compensation expenses. 

Marketing and sales 

##TABLE_START Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 2021 2023 vs 2022 % change 2022 vs 2021 % change (in millions, except percentages) Marketing and sales $ 12,301 $ 15,262 $ 14,043 (19) % 9 % Percentage of revenue 9 % 13 % 12 % ##TABLE_END

Marketing and sales expenses in 2023 decreased $2.96 billion, or 19%, compared to 2022. The decrease was mainly due to decreases in marketing and promotional expenses as well as payroll and related expenses. The payroll and related expenses decreased as a result of a decrease in employee headcount from December 31, 2022 to December 31, 2023 in our marketing and sales functions. 

Table of Contents 

General and administrative 

##TABLE_START Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 2021 2023 vs 2022 % change 2022 vs 2021 % change (in millions, except percentages) General and administrative $ 11,408 $ 11,816 $ 9,829 (3) % 20 % Percentage of revenue 8 % 10 % 8 % ##TABLE_END &#160; 

General and administrative expenses in 2023 decreased $408 million, or 3%, compared to 2022. The decrease was mainly due to lower payroll and related expenses, as a result of a decrease in employee headcount from December 31, 2022 to December 31, 2023 in our general and administrative functions. 

Segment profitability 

The following table sets forth income (loss) from operations by segment: 

##TABLE_START Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 2021 2023 vs 2022 % change 2022 vs 2021 % change (in millions, except percentages) Family of Apps $ 62,871 $ 42,661 $ 56,946 47 % (25) % Reality Labs (16,120) (13,717) (10,193) (18) % (35) % Total income from operations $ 46,751 $ 28,944 $ 46,753 62 % (38) % ##TABLE_END

Family of Apps 

FoA income from operations in 2023 increased $20.21 billion, or 47%, compared to 2022. The increase was mostly driven by higher advertising revenue and a decrease in marketing and sales expenses. 

Reality Labs 

RL loss from operations in 2023 increased $2.40 billion, or 18%, compared to 2022. The increase in loss was mainly due to an increase in payroll and related expenses and a decrease in RL revenue. 

Interest and other income (expense), net 

##TABLE_START Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 2021 2023 vs 2022 % change 2022 vs 2021 % change (in millions, except percentages) Interest income $ 1,639 $ 461 $ 484 256 % (5) % Interest expense (446) (185) (23) (141) % NM Foreign currency exchange losses, net (366) (81) (140) (352) % 42 % Other income (expense), net (150) (320) 210 53 % (252) % Interest and other income (expense), net $ 677 $ (125) $ 531 NM (124) % ##TABLE_END &#160; 

Interest and other income (expense), net in 2023 increased $802 million compared to 2022. The increase in interest income was due to a combination of higher interest rates and higher balances, compared to the same period in 2022. Changes in other income (expense), net were mostly related to gains (losses) recognized for our equity investments. 

Table of Contents 

Provision for income taxes 

##TABLE_START Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 2021 2023 vs 2022 % change 2022 vs 2021 % change (in millions, except percentages) Provision for income taxes $ 8,330 $ 5,619 $ 7,914 48 % (29) % Effective tax rate 18 % 19 % 17 % ##TABLE_END

Our provision for income taxes in 2023 increased $2.71 billion, or 48%, compared to 2022, due to an increase in income before provision for income taxes. 

Our effective tax rate in 2023 decreased compared to 2022, primarily due to excess tax benefits recognized from share-based compensation in 2023 and the effect of additional guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) providing temporary relief on foreign tax credits. This was partially offset by a decrease in the proportion of U.S. tax benefits from foreign-derived intangible income relative to income before provision for income taxes and additional clarification issued by the IRS in September 2023 regarding research and development expenses subject to mandatory capitalization and amortization. 

Effective Tax Rate Items . Our effective tax rate in the future will depend upon the proportion between the following items and income before provision for income taxes: U.S. tax benefits from foreign-derived intangible income, tax effects from share-based compensation, research tax credit, tax effects from capital losses not expected to be utilized, restructurings, settlement of tax contingency items, tax effects of changes in our business, and the effects of changes in tax law. 

The accounting for share-based compensation may increase or decrease our effective tax rate based upon the difference between our share-based compensation expense and the deductions taken on our tax return, which depend upon the stock price at the time of employee award vesting. If our stock price remains constant to the January 26, 2024 price, and absent any changes to U.S. tax law, we expect our effective tax rate for the full year 2024 to be in the mid-teens. This includes the effects of the mandatory capitalization and amortization of research and development expenses incurred in 2023, as required by the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Tax Act). The mandatory capitalization requirement increased our 2023 cash tax liabilities materially but also decreased our effective tax rate due to increasing the foreign-derived intangible income deduction. If the mandatory capitalization is deferred, our effective tax rate in 2024 could be higher when compared to current law and our cash tax liabilities could be lower. 

Unrecognized Tax Benefits . As of December 31, 2023, we had net uncertain tax positions of $6.95 billion which were accrued as other liabilities. These unrecognized tax benefits were predominantly accrued for uncertainties related to transfer pricing with our foreign subsidiaries, which includes licensing of intellectual property, providing services and other transactions, as well as for uncertainties regarding the utilization of our research tax credits. The ultimate settlement of the liabilities will depend upon resolution of tax audits, litigation, or events that would otherwise change the assessment of such items. Based upon the status of litigation described below and the current status of tax audits in various jurisdictions, we do not anticipate a material change to such amounts within the next 12 months. 

See Note 15 &#8212; Income Taxes in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding income tax contingencies. 

Table of Contents 

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

Our principal sources of liquidity are our cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, and cash generated from operations. Cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities are comprised of cash on deposit with banks, time deposits, money market funds, U.S. government and agency securities, and investment grade corporate debt securities. As part of our cash management strategy, we concentrate cash deposits with large financial institutions and our investment holdings are in diversified highly rated securities. Cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities were $65.40 billion as of December 31, 2023, an increase of $24.67 billion from December 31, 2022. The increase was mostly due to $71.11 billion of cash generated from operations, and $8.46 billion of net proceeds from the issuance of fixed-rate senior unsecured notes (the Notes) in May 2023. These increases were partially offset by $28.10 billion for capital expenditures, including principal payments on finance leases, $19.77 billion for repurchases of our Class A common stock, and $7.01 billion of taxes paid related to net share settlement of employee restricted stock unit (RSU) awards. 

The following table presents our cash flows (in millions): 

##TABLE_START Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 2021 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 71,113 $ 50,475 $ 57,683 Net cash used in investing activities $ (24,495) $ (28,970) $ (7,570) Net cash used in financing activities $ (19,500) $ (22,136) $ (50,728) ##TABLE_END

Cash Provided by Operating Activities 

Cash provided by operating activities during 2023 mostly consisted of $39.10 billion net income adjusted for certain non-cash items, such as $14.03 billion of share-based compensation expense and $11.18 billion of depreciation and amortization expense, as well as $3.29 billion of favorable changes in working capital. The increase in cash flows from operating activities during 2023 compared to 2022 was mostly du e to an increase in cash collection from our customers driven by the increase in revenue, and a decrease in payments to our vendors. 

Cash Used in Investing Activities 

Cash used in investing activities during 2023 mostly consisted of $27.05 billion of net purchases of property and equipment as we continued to invest in data centers, servers, and network infrastructure, partially offset by $3.20 billion net proceeds from maturities and sales of marketable debt securities. The decrease in cash used in investing activities during 2023 compared to 2022 was mostly due to a decrease in purchases of property and equipment. 

We anticipate making capital expenditures of approximately $30 billion to $37 billion in 2024. 

Cash Used in Financing Activities 

Cash used in financing activities during 2023 mostly consisted of $19.77 billion for repurchases of our Class A common stock and $7.01 billion of taxes paid related to net share settlement of RSUs, partially offset by $8.46 billion proceeds from the issuance of the Notes in May 2023. The decrease in cash used in financing activities during 2023 compared to 2022 was mainly due to a decrease in cash paid for repurchases of our Class A common stock, partially offset by an increase in taxes paid related to net share settlement of employee RSU awards and a decrease in net proceeds from our debt offerings. 

Free Cash Flow 

In addition to other financial measures presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP, we monitor free cash flow (FCF) as a non-GAAP measure to manage our business, make planning decisions, evaluate our performance, and allocate resources. We define FCF as net cash provided by operating activities reduced by net purchases of property and equipment and principal payments on finance leases. 

Table of Contents 

We believe that FCF is one of the key financial indicators of our business performance over the long term and provides useful information regarding how cash provided by operating activities compares to the property and equipment investments required to maintain and grow our business. 

We have chosen our definition for FCF because we believe that this methodology can provide useful supplemental information to help investors better understand underlying trends in our business. We use FCF in discussions with our senior management and board of directors. 

FCF has limitations as an analytical tool, and you should not consider it in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of other GAAP financial measures, such as net cash provided by operating activities. FCF is not intended to represent our residual cash flow available for discretionary expenses. Some of the limitations of FCF are: 

&#8226; FCF does not reflect our future contractual commitments; and 

&#8226; other companies in our industry present similarly titled measures differently than we do, limiting their usefulness as comparative measures. 

Management compensates for the inherent limitations associated with using the FCF measure through disclosure of such limitations, presentation of our financial statements in accordance with GAAP, and reconciliation of FCF to the most directly comparable GAAP measure, net cash provided by operating activities, as presented below. 

The following is a reconciliation of FCF to the most comparable GAAP measure, net cash provided by operating activities (in millions): 

##TABLE_START Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 2021 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 71,113 $ 50,475 $ 57,683 Purchases of property and equipment, net (27,045) (31,186) (18,567) Principal payments on finance leases (1,058) (850) (677) Free cash flow $ 43,010 $ 18,439 $ 38,439 ##TABLE_END

Material Cash Requirements 

We currently anticipate that our available funds and cash flow from operations and financing activities will be sufficient to meet our operational cash needs and fund our share repurchases and dividend payments for at least the next 12 months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. We continuously evaluate our liquidity and capital resources, including our access to external capital, to ensure we can finance our future capital requirements. 

Leases and Contractual Commitments 

Our operating lease obligations mostly include offices, data centers, and colocations. Our finance lease obligations include certain network infrastructure. Our facilities consolidation restructuring efforts did not materially change our operating lease obligations. 

Our contractual commitments are primarily related to our investments in servers, network infrastructure, and consumer hardware products in Reality Labs. 

Long-term Debt 

As of December 31, 2023, we had outstanding long-term debt in the form of senior unsecured notes for an aggregate principal amount of $18.50 billion. These notes were issued in multiple series, which mature from 2027 through 2063. Short-term and long-term future interest payments obligations as of December 31, 2023 are $848 million and $16.40 billion, respectively. Net proceeds from the offerings are used for general corporate purposes, which may include, but are not limited to, capital expenditures, share repurchases, dividend payments, acquisitions or investments. 

Table of Contents 

Share Repurchase 

Our board of directors has authorized a share repurchase program of our Class A common stock, which commenced in January 2017 and does not have an expiration date. In 2023, we repurchased and subsequently retired 92 million shares of our Class A common stock for an aggregate amount of $20.03 billion, which includes the 1% excise tax accruals as a result of the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022. As of December 31, 2023, $30.93 billion remained available and authorized for repurchases. In January 2024, an additional $50 billion of repurchases was authorized under this program. 

Dividend 

On February 1, 2024, we announced the initiation of our first ever cash dividend program. This cash dividend of $0.50 per share of common stock is equivalent to $2.00 per share on an annual basis. The first cash dividend will be paid on March 26, 2024 to all holders of record of common stock at the close of business on February 22, 2024. 

Subject to legally available funds and future declaration by our board of directors, we currently intend to continue to pay a quarterly cash dividend on our outstanding Class A common stock and Class B common stock. The declaration and payment of future dividends is at the sole discretion of our board of directors after taking into account various factors, including our financial condition, operating results, available cash, and current and anticipated cash needs. 

Taxes 

Cash paid for income taxes was $6.61 billion for the year ended December 31, 2023. As of December 31, 2023, we had taxes payable of $1.14 billion related to a one-time transition tax payable incurred as a result of the Tax Act, of which $575 million is due within one year. As permitted by the Tax Act, we will pay the transition tax in annual interest-free installments through 2025. Our other liabilities also include $6.95 billion related to the uncertain tax positions as of December 31, 2023. Due to uncertainties in the timing of the completion of tax audits, the timing of the resolution of these positions is uncertain and we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of payments. 

Loss Contingencies 

We are involved in legal proceedings, claims, and regulatory, tax or government inquiries and investigations. We record a liability when we believe that it is both probable that a liability has been incurred, and that the amount can be reasonably estimated. If we determine there is a reasonable possibility that we may incur a loss and the loss or range of loss can be estimated, we disclose the possible loss in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements to the extent material. Significant judgment is required to determine both probability and the estimated amount of loss. Such matters are inherently unpredictable and subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. Should any of these estimates and assumptions change or prove to be incorrect, it could have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. 

See Note 8 &#8212; Leases, Note 10 &#8212; Long-term Debt, Note 12 &#8212; Commitments and Contingencies, Note 13 &#8212; Stockholders' Equity, and Note 15 &#8212; Income Taxes in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, and "Legal Proceedings" contained in Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding leases and contractual commitments, debt, taxes, and contingencies. 

Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements 

For information on recently issued accounting pronouncements, see Note 1 &#8212; Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Table of Contents 



Instruction: 
According to the given information, describe the performance highlights per business of the company. 
Each business description should contain one sentence of a summarization and one sentence of explanation. 
Less than 130 words.
