Resource: Resource: Company Name: NVIDIA Corporation

Business summary:
 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Our Company 

NVIDIA pioneered accelerated computing to help solve the most challenging computational problems. Since our original focus on PC graphics, we have expanded to several other large and important computationally intensive fields. Fueled by the sustained demand for exceptional 3D graphics and the scale of the gaming market, NVIDIA has leveraged its GPU architecture to create platforms for scientific computing, artificial intelligence, or AI, data science, autonomous vehicles, or AV, robotics, metaverse and 3D internet applications. 

The GPU was initially used to simulate human imagination, enabling the virtual worlds of video games and films. Today, it also simulates human intelligence, enabling a deeper understanding of the physical world. Its parallel processing capabilities, supported by thousands of computing cores, are essential to running deep learning algorithms. This form of AI, in which software writes itself by learning from large amounts of data, can serve as the brain of computers, robots and self-driving cars that can perceive and understand the world. GPU-powered deep learning is being adopted by thousands of enterprises to deliver services and products that would have been immensely difficult with traditional coding. Some of the most recent applications of GPU-powered deep learning include recommendation systems, which are AI algorithms trained to understand the preferences, previous decisions, and characteristics of people and products using data gathered about their interactions, large language models, which can recognize, summarize, translate, predict and generate text and other content based on knowledge gained from massive datasets, and generative AI, which uses algorithms that create new content, including audio, code, images, text, simulations, and videos, based on the data they have been trained on. 

NVIDIA has a platform strategy, bringing together hardware, systems, software, algorithms, libraries, and services to create unique value for the markets we serve. While the computing requirements of these end markets are diverse, we address them with a unified underlying architecture leveraging our GPUs and software stacks. The programmable nature of our architecture allows us to support several multi-billion-dollar end markets with the same underlying technology by using a variety of software stacks developed either internally or by third-party developers and partners. The large and growing number of developers across our platforms strengthens our ecosystem and increases the value of our platform to our customers. 

Innovation is at our core. We have invested over $37 billion in research and development since our inception, yielding inventions that are essential to modern computing. Our invention of the GPU in 1999 defined modern computer graphics and established NVIDIA as the leader in computer graphics. With our introduction of the CUDA programming model in 2006, we opened the parallel processing capabilities of our GPU for general purpose computing. This approach significantly accelerates the most demanding high-performance computing, or HPC, applications in fields such as aerospace, bio-science research, mechanical and fluid simulations, and energy exploration. Today, our GPUs and networking accelerate many of the fastest supercomputers across the world. In addition, the massively parallel compute architecture of our GPUs and associated software are well suited for deep learning and machine learning, powering the era of AI. While traditional CPU-based approaches no longer deliver advances on the pace described by Moore&#8217;s Law, NVIDIA accelerated computing delivers performance improvements on a pace ahead of Moore&#8217;s Law, giving the industry a path forward. 

Gamers choose NVIDIA GPUs to enjoy immersive, increasingly cinematic virtual worlds. GPUs also help underpin the world&#8217;s fastest growing spectator sport, eSports, which attracts hundreds of millions of viewers to watch top-quality live video gaming. In addition to serving the growing number of gamers, the market for gaming GPUs is expanding because of the burgeoning population of live streamers, broadcasters, artists and creators. 

Researchers and developers use our GPUs to accelerate a wide range of important applications, from simulating molecular dynamics to climate forecasting. With support for more than 2,800 applications - including 23 of the top 25 HPC applications - NVIDIA GPUs enable some of the most promising areas of discovery, from climate prediction to materials science and from wind tunnel simulation to genomics. Including GPUs and networking, NVIDIA powers over 70% of the supercomputers on the global TOP500 list, including 23 of the top 30 systems on the Green500 list. 

The world&#8217;s leading cloud service providers, or CSPs, and consumer internet companies use our GPUs and broader data center-scale accelerated computing platforms to enable, accelerate or enrich the services they deliver to billions of end-users, including search, recommendations, social networking, online shopping, live video, translation, AI assistants, navigation, and cloud computing. 

A rapidly growing number of enterprises and startups across a broad range of industries use our GPUs and software to bring automation to the products and services they build. The transportation industry is turning to our platforms for autonomous driving; the healthcare industry is leveraging them for enhanced medical imaging and acceleration of drug discovery; and the financial services industry is using them for fraud detection. 

Professional designers use our GPUs and software to create visual effects in movies and to design buildings and products ranging from cell phones to commercial aircraft. 

Headquartered in Santa Clara, California, NVIDIA was incorporated in California in April 1993 and reincorporated in Delaware in April 1998. 

Termination of the Arm Share Purchase Agreement 

In February 2022, NVIDIA and SoftBank Group Corp., or SoftBank, announced the termination of the Share Purchase Agreement whereby NVIDIA would have acquired Arm Limited, or Arm, from SoftBank. The parties agreed to terminate because of significant regulatory challenges preventing the completion of the transaction. We recorded an acquisition termination cost of $1.35 billion in fiscal year 2023 reflecting the write-off of the prepayment provided at signing. 

Our Businesses 

We report our business results in two segments. 

The Compute &#38; Networking segment includes our Data Center accelerated computing platform; networking; automotive AI Cockpit, autonomous driving development agreements, and autonomous vehicle solutions; electric vehicle computing platforms; Jetson for robotics and other embedded platforms; NVIDIA AI Enterprise and other software; and cryptocurrency mining processors, or CMP. 

The Graphics segment includes GeForce GPUs for gaming and PCs, the GeForce NOW game streaming service and related infrastructure, and solutions for gaming platforms; Quadro/NVIDIA RTX GPUs for enterprise workstation graphics; virtual GPU, or vGPU, software for cloud-based visual and virtual computing; automotive platforms for infotainment systems; and Omniverse Enterprise software for building and operating metaverse and 3D internet applications. 

Our Markets 

We specialize in markets in which our computing platforms can provide tremendous acceleration for applications. These platforms incorporate processors, interconnects, software, algorithms, systems, and services to deliver unique value. Our platforms address four large markets where our expertise is critical: Data Center, Gaming, Professional Visualization, and Automotive. 

Data Center 

The NVIDIA computing platform is focused on accelerating the most compute-intensive workloads, such as AI, data analytics, graphics and scientific computing, across hyperscale, cloud, enterprise, public sector, and edge data centers. The platform consists of our energy efficient GPUs, data processing units, or DPUs, interconnects and systems, our CUDA programming model, and a growing body of software libraries, software development kits, or SDKs, application frameworks and services, which are either available as part of the platform or packaged and sold separately. 

For both AI and HPC applications, the NVIDIA accelerated computing platform greatly increases computer and data center performance and power efficiency relative to conventional CPU-only approaches. In the field of AI, NVIDIA&#8217;s platform accelerates both deep learning and machine learning workloads. Deep learning is a computer science approach where neural networks are trained to recognize patterns from massive amounts of data in the form of images, sounds and text - in some instances better than humans - and in turn provide predictions in production use cases. Machine learning is a related approach that leverages algorithms as well 

as data to learn how to make determinations or predictions. HPC, which includes scientific computing, uses numerical computational approaches to solve large and complex problems. 

We are engaged with thousands of organizations working on AI in a multitude of industries, from automating tasks such as consumer product and service recommendations, to chatbots for the automation of or assistance with live customer interactions, to enabling fraud detection in financial services, to optimizing oil exploration and drilling. These organizations include the world&#8217;s leading consumer internet and cloud services companies, enterprises and startups seeking to implement AI in transformative ways across multiple industries. We partner with industry leaders to help transform their applications or their computing platforms. We also have partnerships in transportation, retail, healthcare, and manufacturing, among others, to accelerate the adoption of AI. 

At the foundation of the NVIDIA accelerated computing platform are our GPUs, which excel at parallel workloads such as the training and inferencing of neural networks. They are available in industry standard servers from every major computer maker and CSP, as well as in our DGX AI supercomputer, a purpose-built system for deep learning and GPU accelerated applications. To facilitate customer adoption, we have also built other ready-to-use system reference designs around our GPUs, including HGX for hyperscale and supercomputing data centers, EGX for enterprise and edge computing, IGX for high-precision edge AI, and AGX for autonomous machines. 

In fiscal year 2023, we introduced the Hopper architecture of data center GPUs, and started shipping the first Hopper-based GPU &#8211; the flagship H100. Hopper includes a Transformer Engine, designed to accelerate the training of AI transformer models by an order of magnitude over the prior generation. H100 is ideal for accelerating applications such as large language models, deep recommender systems, genomics and complex digital twins. 

NVIDIA will offer enterprise customers NVIDIA AI cloud services directly and through our network of partners. Examples of these services include NVIDIA DGX Cloud, which is cloud-based infrastructure and software for training AI models, and customizable pretrained AI models. NVIDIA has partnered with leading cloud service providers to host these services in their data centers. 

Our networking solutions include InfiniBand and Ethernet network adapters and switches, related software, and cables. This has enabled us to architect end-to-end data center-scale computing platforms that can interconnect thousands of compute nodes with high-performance networking. While historically the server was the unit of computing, as AI and HPC workloads have become extremely large spanning thousands of compute nodes, the data center has become the new unit of computing, with networking as an integral part. 

Beyond GPUs, NVIDIA has expanded its data center processor portfolio to include DPUs, currently shipping in the market, and CPUs with samples planned to ship in the first half of fiscal year 2024. The NVIDIA Bluefield DPU is supported by foundational data-center-infrastructure-on-a-chip software, or DOCA, that lets developers build software-defined, hardware-accelerated networking, security, storage and management applications for BlueField DPUs. Partners supporting Bluefield include many of the top security, storage and networking companies. We can optimize across the entire computing, networking and storage stack to deliver data center-scale computing solutions. The Grace CPU is designed for AI infrastructure and high-performance computing, providing the highest performance and twice the memory bandwidth and energy-efficiency compared to today&#8217;s leading server chips. 

While our approach starts with powerful chips, what makes it a full-stack computing platform is our large body of software, including the CUDA parallel programming model, the CUDA-X collection of application acceleration libraries, Application Programming Interfaces, or APIs, SDKs and tools, and domain-specific application frameworks. We also offer the NVIDIA GPU Cloud registry, or NGC, a comprehensive catalog of easy-to-use, optimized software stacks across a range of domains including scientific computing, deep learning, and machine learning. With NGC, AI developers, researchers and data scientists can get started with the development of AI and HPC applications and deploy them on DGX systems, NVIDIA-Certified systems from our partners, or with NVIDIA&#8217;s cloud partners. 

In addition to software that is delivered to customers as an integral part of our data center computing platform, we offer paid licenses to NVIDIA AI Enterprise, a comprehensive suite of enterprise-grade AI software; and NVIDIA vGPU software for graphics-rich virtual desktops and workstations. 

Gaming 

Gaming is the largest entertainment industry, with PC gaming as the predominant platform. Many factors propel computer gaming&#8217;s growth, including new high production value games and franchises, the continued rise of competitive gaming or eSports, social connectivity and the increasing popularity of game streamers, modders, or gamers who create game modifications, and creators. 

Our gaming platforms leverage our GPUs and sophisticated software to enhance the gaming experience with smoother, higher quality graphics. We developed NVIDIA RTX to bring next generation graphics and AI to games. NVIDIA RTX features ray tracing technology for real-time, cinematic-quality rendering. Ray tracing, which has long been used for special effects in the movie industry, is a computationally intensive technique that simulates the physical behavior of light to achieve greater realism in computer-generated scenes. NVIDIA RTX also features deep learning super sampling, or NVIDIA DLSS, our AI technology that boosts frame rates while generating beautiful, sharp images for games. 

Our products for the gaming market include GeForce RTX and GeForce GTX GPUs for gaming desktop and laptop PCs, GeForce NOW cloud gaming for playing PC games on underpowered devices, SHIELD for high quality streaming on TV, as well as system-on-chips (SOCs) and development services for game consoles. 

In fiscal year 2023, we introduced the GeForce RTX 40 Series of gaming GPUs, based on the Ada Lovelace architecture. The 40 Series features our third generation RTX technology, third generation NVIDIA DLSS, and fourth generation Tensor Cores to deliver up to 4X the performance of the previous generation. 

Professional Visualization 

We serve the Professional Visualization market by working closely with independent software vendors, or ISVs, to optimize their offerings for NVIDIA GPUs. Our GPU computing platform enhances productivity and introduces new capabilities for critical workflows in many fields, such as design and manufacturing and digital content creation. Design and manufacturing encompass computer-aided design, architectural design, consumer-products manufacturing, medical instrumentation, and aerospace. Digital content creation includes professional video editing and post-production, special effects for films, and broadcast-television graphics. 

The NVIDIA RTX platform makes it possible to render film-quality, photorealistic objects and environments with physically accurate shadows, reflections and refractions using ray tracing in real-time. Many leading 3D design and content creation applications developed by our ecosystem partners now support RTX, allowing professionals to accelerate and transform their workflows with NVIDIA RTX GPUs and software. 

Digital images used in product design need to mirror reality. This requires simulating the physical behavior of light and materials, or physically-based rendering. NVIDIA Omniverse is a virtual world simulation and collaboration platform for 3D workflows, such as building and operating metaverse and 3D internet applications, available as a software subscription for enterprise use and free for individual use. Omniverse, virtual reality, or VR, and augmented reality, or AR, are being incorporated in a growing number of enterprise applications. Virtual car showrooms, surgical training, architectural walkthroughs, and bringing historical scenes to life all deploy these technologies, powered by our GPUs. 

Automotive 

NVIDIA&#8217;s Automotive market is comprised of AV, AI cockpit, electric vehicle computing platforms, and infotainment platform solutions. Leveraging our technology leadership in AI and building on our long-standing automotive relationships, we are delivering a complete end-to-end solution for the AV market under the DRIVE Hyperion brand. NVIDIA has demonstrated multiple applications of AI within the car: AI can drive the car itself as a pilot in fully autonomous mode or it can also be a co-pilot, assisting the human driver while creating a safer driving experience. 

NVIDIA is working with several hundred partners in the automotive ecosystem including automakers, truck makers, tier-one suppliers, sensor manufacturers, automotive research institutions, HD mapping companies, and startups to develop and deploy AI systems for self-driving vehicles. Our unified AI computing architecture starts with training deep neural networks using our GPUs, and then running a full perception, fusion, planning and control stack within the vehicle on the NVIDIA DRIVE Hyperion platform. The DRIVE Hyperion platform consists of the high-performance, energy efficient DRIVE AGX computing hardware, a reference sensor set that supports full self-driving capability as well as an open, modular DRIVE Software 

platform. The DRIVE Software platform includes DRIVE Chauffeur for autonomous driving, mapping and parking services, Drive Concierge for intelligent in-vehicle experiences, and real time conversational AI capability based on NVIDIA Omniverse Avatar software. 

In addition, we offer a scalable data center-based simulation solution, NVIDIA DRIVE Sim, based on NVIDIA Omniverse software, for digital cockpit development, as well as for testing and validating a self-driving platform. NVIDIA's unique end-to-end, software-defined approach is designed for continuous innovation and continuous development, enabling cars to receive over-the-air updates to add new features and capabilities throughout the life of a vehicle. 

Business Strategies 

NVIDIA&#8217;s key strategies that shape our overall business approach include: 

Advancing the NVIDIA accelerated computing platform. NVIDIA&#8217;s accelerated computing platform can solve complex problems in significantly less time and with lower power consumption than alternative computational approaches. Indeed, it can help solve problems that were previously deemed unsolvable. We work to deliver continued performance leaps that outpace Moore&#8217;s Law by leveraging innovation across the architecture, chip design, system, interconnect, and software layers. This full-stack innovation approach allows us to deliver order-of-magnitude performance advantages relative to legacy approaches in our target markets, which include Data Center, Gaming, Professional Visualization, and Automotive. While the computing requirements of these end markets are diverse, we address them with a unified underlying architecture leveraging our GPUs, CUDA and networking technologies as the fundamental building blocks. The programmable nature of our architecture allows us to make leveraged investments in research and development: we can support several multi-billion-dollar end markets with shared underlying technology by using a variety of software stacks developed either internally or by third-party developers and partners. We utilize this platform approach in each of our target markets. 

Extending our technology and platform leadership in AI. We provide a complete, end-to-end accelerated computing platform for deep learning and machine learning, addressing both training and inferencing. This includes GPUs, interconnects, systems, our CUDA programming language, algorithms, libraries, and other software. GPUs are uniquely suited to AI, and we will continue to add AI-specific features to our GPU architecture to further extend our leadership position. Our AI technology leadership is reinforced by our large and expanding ecosystem in a virtuous cycle. Our GPU platforms are available from virtually every major server maker and CSP, as well as on our own AI supercomputer. There are 3.8 million developers worldwide using CUDA and our other software tools to help deploy our technology in our target markets. We evangelize AI through partnerships with hundreds of universities and over 13,000 startups through our Inception program. Additionally, our Deep Learning Institute provides instruction on the latest techniques on how to design, train, and deploy neural networks in applications using our accelerated computing platform. 

Extending our technology and platform leadership in computer graphics. We believe that computer graphics is fundamental to the continued expansion and evolution of computing. We apply our research and development resources to enhance the user experience for consumer entertainment and professional visualization applications, and create new virtual world and simulation capabilities. Our technologies are instrumental in driving gaming forward, as developers leverage our libraries and algorithms to deliver an optimized gaming experience on our GeForce platform. Our computer graphics platforms leverage not only our industry-leading GeForce and NVIDIA RTX GPUs, but also optimized software stacks. For example, GeForce Experience enhances each gamer&#8217;s experience by optimizing their PC&#8217;s settings, as well as enabling the recording and sharing of gameplay. Our Studio drivers enhance and accelerate a number of popular creative applications. Omniverse is real-time 3D design collaboration and virtual world simulation software that empowers artists, designers and creators to connect and collaborate in leading design applications. We also enable interactive graphics applications - such as games, movie and photo editing and design software - to be accessed by almost any device, almost anywhere, through our cloud platforms such as vGPU for enterprise and GeForce NOW for gaming. 

Advancing the leading autonomous vehicle platform. We believe the advent of AV will soon revolutionize the transportation industry. In our view, AI is the key technology enabler of this opportunity, as the algorithms required for autonomous driving - such as perception, localization, and planning - are too complex for legacy hand-coded approaches and will use multiple trained neural networks instead. Therefore, we provide a full functionally safe AI-based hardware and software solution for the AV market under the DRIVE brand, which we are bringing to market through our partnerships with automotive original equipment manufacturers, or 

OEMs, tier-1 suppliers, and start-ups. Our AV solution also includes the GPU-based hardware required to train the neural networks before their in-vehicle deployment, as well as to re-simulate their operation prior to any over-the-air software updates. We believe our comprehensive, top-to-bottom and end-to-end approach will enable the transportation industry to solve the complex problems arising from the shift to autonomous driving. 

Leveraging our intellectual property, or IP. We believe our IP is a valuable asset that can be accessed by our customers and partners through license and development agreements when they desire to build such capabilities directly into their own products, or have us do so through a custom development. Such license and development arrangements can further enhance the reach of our technology. 

Sales and Marketing 

Our worldwide sales and marketing strategy is key to achieving our objective of providing markets with our high-performance and efficient computing platforms and software. Our sales and marketing teams, located across our global markets, work closely with end customers and various industry ecosystems through our partner network. Our partner network incorporates each industry's respective OEMs, original device manufacturers, or ODMs, system builders, add-in board manufacturers, or AIBs, retailers/distributors, ISVs, internet and CSPs, automotive manufacturers and tier-1 automotive suppliers, mapping companies, start-ups, and other ecosystem participants. 

Members of our sales team have technical expertise and product and industry knowledge. We also employ a team of application engineers and solution architects to assist our partner network in designing, testing, and qualifying system designs that incorporate our platforms. We believe that the depth and quality of our design support are key to improving our partner network&#8217;s time-to-market, maintaining a high level of customer satisfaction, and fostering relationships that encourage our end customers and partner network to use the next generation of our products within each platform. 

To encourage the development of applications optimized for our platforms and software, we seek to establish and maintain strong relationships in the software development community. Engineering and marketing personnel engage with key software developers to promote and discuss our platforms, as well as to ascertain individual product requirements and solve technical problems. Our developer program makes our products available to developers prior to launch in order to encourage the development of AI frameworks, SDKs, and APIs for software applications and game titles that are optimized for our platforms. Our Deep Learning Institute provides in-person and online training for developers in industries and organizations around the world to build AI and accelerated computing applications that leverage our platforms. 

As NVIDIA&#8217;s business has evolved from a focus primarily on gaming products to broader markets, and from chips to platforms, systems and software, so, too, have our avenues to market. Thus, in addition to sales to customers in our partner network, certain of our products are also sold direct to CSPs, enterprise customers, retail channels and consumers. 

Seasonality 

Our computing platforms serve a diverse set of markets such as consumer gaming, enterprise and cloud data centers, professional workstations, and automotive. Our consumer products typically see stronger revenue in the second half of our fiscal year. In addition, based on the production schedules of key customers, some of our products for notebooks and game consoles typically generate stronger revenue in the second and third quarters, and weaker revenue in the fourth and first quarters. In fiscal year 2023, our supply exceeded our demand in several areas, and our revenue did not follow historical seasonal patterns. Historical seasonality trends may not repeat. 

Manufacturing 

We do not manufacture semiconductors used for our products. Instead, we utilize a fabless manufacturing strategy, whereby we employ key suppliers for all phases of the manufacturing process, including wafer fabrication, assembly, testing, and packaging. This strategy uses the expertise of industry-leading suppliers that are certified by the International Organization for Standardization in such areas as fabrication, assembly, quality control and assurance, reliability, and testing. Additionally, we can avoid many of the significant costs and risks associated with owning and operating manufacturing operations. While we may directly procure certain raw materials used in the production of our products, such as memory, substrates and a variety of components, our suppliers are responsible for procurement of most of the raw materials used in the 

production of our products. As a result, we can focus our resources on product design, additional quality assurance, marketing, and customer support. We have placed non-cancellable inventory orders for certain product components in advance of our historical lead times, paid premiums and provided deposits to secure future supply and capacity and may need to continue to do so in the future. 

We have expanded our supplier relationships to build redundancy and resilience in our operations. We utilize suppliers, such as Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited and Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd, to produce our semiconductor wafers. We then utilize independent subcontractors and contract manufacturers, such as Amkor Technology, BYD Auto Co. Ltd., or BYD Auto, Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., or Hon Hai, King Yuan Electronics Co., Ltd., Omni Logistics, LLC, Siliconware Precision Industries Company Ltd., and Wistron Corporation to perform assembly, testing, and packaging of most of our products and platforms. We use contract manufacturers such as Flex Ltd., Jabil Inc., and Universal Scientific Industrial Co., Ltd., to manufacture our standard and custom adapter card products and switch systems, and Fabrinet to manufacture our networking cables. We purchase substrates from Ibiden Co. Ltd., Kinsus Interconnect Technology Corporation, and Unimicron Technology Corporation, and memory from Micron Technology, Samsung Semiconductor, Inc., or Samsung, and SK Hynix. We often consign key components or materials such as the GPU, SoC, memory, and integrated circuit to the contract manufacturers. 

We typically receive semiconductor products from our subcontractors, perform incoming quality assurance and configuration using test equipment purchased from industry-leading suppliers such as Advantest America Inc. and Chroma ATE Inc., and then ship the semiconductors to contract manufacturers, such as BYD Auto and Hon Hai, distributors, motherboard and add-in card, or AIC, customers from our third-party warehouses in Hong Kong, Israel, and the United States. Generally, these manufacturers assemble and test the boards based on our design kit and test specifications, and then ship our products to retailers, system builders, or OEMs as motherboard and AIC solutions. 

Competition 

The market for our products is intensely competitive and is characterized by rapid technological change and evolving industry standards. We believe that the principal competitive factors in this market are performance, breadth of product offerings, access to customers and partners and distribution channels, software support, conformity to industry standard APIs, manufacturing capabilities, processor pricing, and total system costs. We believe that our ability to remain competitive will depend on how well we are able to anticipate the features and functions that customers and partners will demand and whether we are able to deliver consistent volumes of our products at acceptable levels of quality and at competitive prices. We expect competition to increase from both existing competitors and new market entrants with products that may be lower priced than ours or may provide better performance or additional features not provided by our products. In addition, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and acquire significant market share. 

A significant source of competition comes from companies that provide or intend to provide GPUs, CPUs, DPUs, embedded SoCs, and other accelerated, AI computing processor products, and providers of semiconductor-based high-performance interconnect products based on InfiniBand, Ethernet, Fibre Channel and proprietary technologies. Some of our competitors may have greater marketing, financial, distribution and manufacturing resources than we do and may be more able to adapt to customer or technological changes. We expect an increasingly competitive environment in the future. 

Our current competitors include: 

&#8226; suppliers and licensors of hardware and software for discrete and integrated GPUs, custom chips and other accelerated computing solutions, including solutions offered for AI, such as Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., or AMD, and Intel Corporation, or Intel; 

&#8226; large cloud services companies with internal teams designing chips and software that incorporate accelerated or AI computing functionality as part of their internal solutions or platforms, such as Alibaba Group, Alphabet Inc., Amazon, Inc., and Baidu, Inc.; 

&#8226; suppliers of Arm-based CPUs and companies that incorporate CPUs as part of their internal solutions or platforms; 

&#8226; suppliers of SoC products that are used in servers or embedded into automobiles, autonomous machines, and gaming devices, such as Ambarella, Inc., AMD, Broadcom Inc., or Broadcom, Intel, Qualcomm Incorporated, Renesas Electronics Corporation, and Samsung, or companies with internal teams designing SoC products for internal use, such as Tesla, Inc.; and 

&#8226; suppliers of interconnect, switch cable solutions, and DPUs such as AMD, Applied Optoelectronics, Inc., Arista Networks, Broadcom, Cisco Systems, Inc., or Cisco, Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company, Intel, Juniper Networks, Inc., Lumentum Holdings, and Marvell Technology Group, as well as internal teams of system vendors and large cloud services companies. 

Patents and Proprietary Rights 

We rely primarily on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements, and licensing arrangements to protect our IP in the United States and internationally. Our currently issued patents have expiration dates from March 2023 to June 2045. We have numerous patents issued, allowed, and pending in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions. Our patents and pending patent applications primarily relate to our products and the technology used in connection with our products. We also rely on international treaties, organizations, and foreign laws to protect our IP. The laws of certain foreign countries in which our products are or may be manufactured or sold, including various countries in Asia, may not protect our products or IP rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. This decreased protection makes the possibility of piracy of our technology and products more likely. We continuously assess whether and where to seek formal protection for particular innovations and technologies based on such factors as: 

&#8226; the location in which our products are manufactured; 

&#8226; our strategic technology or product directions in different countries; 

&#8226; the degree to which IP laws exist and are meaningfully enforced in different jurisdictions; and 

&#8226; the commercial significance of our operations and our competitors' operations in particular countries and regions. 

We have licensed technology from third parties and expect to continue to enter into such license agreements. 

Government Regulations 

Our worldwide business activities are subject to various laws, rules, and regulations of the United States as well as of foreign governments. 

During the third quarter of fiscal year 2023, the U.S. government announced new license requirements that impact certain exports to China (including Hong Kong and Macau) and Russia of some of our data center products. The impact of the new license requirements is difficult to quantify, and it may be challenging for us to manage our operations and forecast our operating results due to these requirements. Refer to &#8220;Item 1A. Risk Factors- Risks Related to Regulatory, Legal, Our Stock and Other Matters&#8221; for a discussion of this potential impact. 

Additionally, our acquisitions may be subject to government regulatory reviews, and the cost to comply with such regulations or costs incurred where regulatory challenges prevent the completion of an acquisition could have a material impact on our business. In February 2022, we announced the termination of the Share Purchase Agreement by which we would have acquired Arm due to significant regulatory challenges preventing the completion of the transaction. We recorded an acquisition termination cost of $1.35 billion in fiscal year 2023 reflecting the write-off of the prepayment provided at signing. 

Compliance with laws, rules, and regulations has not otherwise had a material effect upon our capital expenditures, results of operations, or competitive position and we do not currently anticipate material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities. Compliance with existing or future governmental regulations, including, but not limited to, those pertaining to IP ownership and infringement, taxes, import and export requirements and tariffs, anti-corruption, business acquisitions, foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions, data privacy requirements, competition and antitrust, advertising, employment, product regulations, cybersecurity, environmental, health and safety requirements, the responsible use of AI, 

climate change, cryptocurrency, and consumer laws, could increase our costs, impact our competitive position, and otherwise may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations in subsequent periods. Refer to &#8220;Item 1A. Risk Factors&#8221; for a discussion of these potential impacts. 

Environmental, Social and Corporate Governance 

NVIDIA invents computing technologies that improve lives and address global challenges. Our goal is to integrate sound environmental, social and corporate governance, or ESG, principles and practices into every aspect of the Company. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of our Board of Directors is responsible for reviewing and discussing with management our practices related to ESG. We assess our programs annually in consideration of stakeholder expectations, market trends, and business risks and opportunities. These issues are important for our continued business success and reflect the topics of highest concern to NVIDIA and our stakeholders. 

The following section and the Human Capital Management Section below provide an overview of our principles and practices. More information can be found on the Corporate Responsibility section of our website and in our annual Corporate Responsibility Report, or CR Report. Information contained on our website or in our annual CR Report is not incorporated by reference into this or any other report we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. Refer to &#8220;Item 1A. Risk Factors&#8221; for a discussion of risks and uncertainties we face related to ESG. 

Climate Change 

In the area of sustainability, we address our climate impacts across our product lifecycle and assess risks, including current and emerging regulations and market impacts. 

In our CR Report published in July 2022, we published metrics related to our environmental impact for fiscal year 2022. Fiscal year 2023 metrics are expected to be published in the first half of fiscal year 2024. There has been no material impact to our capital expenditures, results of operations or competitive position associated with global sustainability regulations, compliance, or costs from sourcing renewable energy. By the end of fiscal year 2025, our goal is to purchase or generate enough renewable energy to match 100% of our global electricity usage for our offices and data centers. 

Whether it is creation of technology to power next-generation laptops or designs to support high-performance supercomputers, improving energy efficiency is important in our research, development, and design processes. GPUs are inherently more energy efficient than other forms of computing because they are optimized for throughput, performance per watt, and certain AI workloads. The energy efficiency of our products is evidenced by our continued strong presence on the Green500 list of the most energy-efficient systems. We powered 23 of the top 30 most energy efficient systems, including the top supercomputer, on the November 2022 Green500 list. 

We plan to build Earth-2, a digital twin of the Earth on NVIDIA AI and NVIDIA Omniverse platforms. Earth-2 will enable scientists, companies, and policy makers to do ultra-high-resolution predictions of the impact of climate change and explore mitigation and adaptation strategies. 

Human Capital Management 

We believe that our employees are our greatest assets, and they play a key role in creating long-term value for our stakeholders. As of the end of fiscal year 2023, we had 26,196 employees in 35 countries, 19,532 were engaged in research and development and 6,664 were engaged in sales, marketing, operations, and administrative positions. 

To be competitive and execute our business strategy successfully, we must recruit, develop, and retain talented employees, including qualified executives, scientists, engineers, and technical and non-technical staff. 

Recruitment 

As the demand for global technical talent continues to be competitive, we have grown our technical workforce and have been successful in attracting top talent to NVIDIA. We have attracted strong talent globally with our differentiated hiring strategies for university, professional, executive and diverse recruits. The COVID-19 pandemic created expanded hiring opportunities in new geographies and provided increased 

flexibility for employees to work from locations of their choice. Our workforce is about 80% technical and about 50% hold advanced degrees. 

Earlier in fiscal year 2023, we slowed our hiring to focus on our current employees and manage costs. We maintain a connection for global talent from universities through on-campus collaborations with professors and student organizations, as well as engagement with technical organizations and participation at industry conferences. Our own employees help to surface top talent, with over 37% of our new hires in fiscal year 2023 coming from employee referrals. 

Development and Retention 

To support employee development, we provide opportunities to learn on-the-job through training programs, one on one coaching and ongoing feedback. We have a library of live and on-demand learning experiences that include workshops, panel discussions, and speaker forums. We curate learning paths focused on our most common development needs and constantly upgrade our offerings to ensure that our employees are exposed to the most current programs and technologies available. We offer tuition reimbursement programs to subsidize educational programs and advanced certifications. We encourage internal mobility through career coaching that advises employees on developmental activities and internal transfer opportunities. We have implemented specifically designed mentoring and development programs for women and employees from traditionally underrepresented groups to ensure widespread readiness for future advancement. 

To evaluate employee sentiment and engagement, we use pulse surveys, a suggestion box, and an anonymous third-party platform. Pulse surveys help us gain insight into employee experience and provide ideas so that we can prioritize areas to take action. The suggestion box is an always-on, interactive tool where employees share their thoughts about making our company a better place to work. The anonymous third-party platform is designed to protect the identity of the reporter and provide a mechanism for reporters to follow an investigation and receive responses. 

We want NVIDIA to be a place where people can build their careers over their lifetime. Our employees tend to come and stay. In fiscal year 2023, our overall turnover rate was 5.3%. 

Compensation, Benefits, and Well-Being 

Our compensation program rewards performance and is structured to encourage employees to invest in the Company&#8217;s future. Employees receive equity, except where unavailable due to local regulations, that is tied to the value of our stock price and vests over time to retain employees while simultaneously aligning their interests with those of our shareholders. 

We offer comprehensive benefits to support our employees&#8217; and their families&#8217; physical health, well-being and financial health, including 401(k) programs in the U.S., statutory pension programs outside the U.S., our employee stock purchase program, flexible work hours and time off, and programs to address mental health, stress, and time-management challenges. We evaluate our benefit offerings globally and aim to provide comparable support across the regions where we operate. We are committed to providing tailored benefits based on community needs, including assistance for military members, additional mental health benefits, and support for new birth parents, and those who wish to become parents. 

Diversity and Inclusion 

We believe that diverse teams fuel innovation, and we are committed to creating an inclusive culture that supports all employees. 

When recruiting for new talent or managing current talent, we focus on recruiting, developing, and retaining a more diverse workforce with a focus on those historically underrepresented in the technology field, including women, Black/African American, and Hispanic/Latino candidates. 

To this end, we have been: 

&#8226; Partnering with institutions and professional organizations serving historically underrepresented communities; 

&#8226; Assigning dedicated recruiting teams to shepherd underrepresented candidates through the interview process; 

&#8226; Embedding inclusion recruiting partners throughout the business to help align candidates with internal opportunities; 

&#8226; Supporting the development of women employees through programs aimed at building a pipeline of future leaders; 

&#8226; Providing peer support and executive sponsors for nine internal community resource groups; 

&#8226; Providing training and education to managers and peers on fostering supportive environments and recruiting for diversity; 

&#8226; Ensuring we have and review a diverse pool of candidates for requisitions; and 

&#8226; Measuring year over year progress and providing leadership visibility on diversity efforts. 

As of the end of fiscal year 2023, our global workforce was 80% male, 19% female, and 1% not declared, with 6% of our workforce in the United States composed of Black or African American and Hispanic or Latino employees. 

Health and COVID-19 

We supported our people and their families in making their health and safety a top priority during fiscal year 2023 and throughout the COVID-19 pandemic to keep our workforce safe. 

Hybrid Working Environment 

We support a hybrid work environment, understanding that many employees want the flexibility to work in the office or from home, and make that decision based on the conditions around them at any point in time. 

Steps we took to support employees working from home include: 

&#8226; Home-focused health and well-being programs; 

&#8226; Learning and development resources on how to work, lead and manage remotely; and 

&#8226; Opportunities for employees to socially connect with one another virtually. 

During fiscal year 2024, we will continue a flexible work environment and have instituted Company-wide &#8220;rest days&#8221; for employees to recharge. 

Information About Our Executive Officers 

The following sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers, their ages and positions as of February 17, 2023: 

##TABLE_START Name Age Position Jen-Hsun Huang 60 President and Chief Executive Officer Colette M. Kress 55 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Ajay K. Puri 68 Executive Vice President, Worldwide Field Operations Debora Shoquist 68 Executive Vice President, Operations Timothy S. Teter 56 Executive Vice President and General Counsel ##TABLE_END

Jen-Hsun Huang co-founded NVIDIA in 1993 and has served as our President, Chief Executive Officer and a member of the Board of Directors since our inception. From 1985 to 1993, Mr. Huang was employed at LSI Logic Corporation, a computer chip manufacturer, where he held a variety of positions including as Director of Coreware, the business unit responsible for LSI's SOC. From 1983 to 1985, Mr. Huang was a microprocessor designer for AMD, a semiconductor company. Mr. Huang holds a B.S.E.E. degree from Oregon State University and an M.S.E.E. degree from Stanford University. 

Colette M. Kress joined NVIDIA in 2013 as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Prior to NVIDIA, Ms. Kress most recently served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Business Technology and Operations Finance organization at Cisco Systems, Inc., a networking equipment company, since 2010. At Cisco, Ms. Kress was responsible for financial strategy, planning, reporting and business 

development for all business segments, engineering and operations. From 1997 to 2010 Ms. Kress held a variety of positions at Microsoft Corporation, or Microsoft, a software company, including, beginning in 2006, Chief Financial Officer of the Server and Tools division, where Ms. Kress was responsible for financial strategy, planning, reporting and business development for the division. Prior to joining Microsoft, Ms. Kress spent eight years at Texas Instruments Incorporated, a semiconductor company, where she held a variety of finance positions. Ms. Kress holds a B.S. degree in Finance from University of Arizona and an M.B.A. degree from Southern Methodist University. 

Ajay K. Puri joined NVIDIA in 2005 as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales and became Executive Vice President, Worldwide Field Operations in 2009. Prior to NVIDIA, he held positions in sales, marketing, and general management over a 22-year career at Sun Microsystems, Inc., a computing systems company. Mr. Puri previously held marketing, management consulting, and product development positions at Hewlett-Packard Company, an information technology company, Booz Allen Hamilton Inc., a management and technology consulting company, and Texas Instruments Incorporated. Mr. Puri holds a B.S.E.E. degree from the University of Minnesota, an M.S.E.E. degree from the California Institute of Technology and an M.B.A. degree from Harvard Business School. 

Debora Shoquist joined NVIDIA in 2007 as Senior Vice President of Operations and in 2009 became Executive Vice President of Operations. Prior to NVIDIA, Ms. Shoquist served from 2004 to 2007 as Executive Vice President of Operations at JDS Uniphase Corp., a provider of communications test and measurement solutions and optical products for the telecommunications industry. She served from 2002 to 2004 as Senior Vice President and General Manager of the Electro-Optics business at Coherent, Inc., a manufacturer of commercial and scientific laser equipment. Previously, she worked at Quantum Corp., a data protection company, as President of the Personal Computer Hard Disk Drive Division, and at Hewlett-Packard Corp. Ms. Shoquist holds a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from Kansas State University and a B.S. degree in Biology from Santa Clara University. 

Timothy S. Teter joined NVIDIA in 2017 as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary and became Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in February 2018. Prior to NVIDIA, Mr. Teter spent more than two decades at the law firm of Cooley LLP, where he focused on litigating patent and technology related matters. Prior to attending law school, he worked as an engineer at Lockheed Missiles and Space Company, an aerospace company. Mr. Teter holds a B.S. degree in Mechanical Engineering from the University of California at Davis and a J.D. degree from Stanford Law School. 

Available Information 

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, are available free of charge on or through our website, http://www.nvidia.com , as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. The SEC&#8217;s website, http://www.sec.gov , contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Our web site and the information on it or connected to it are not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 



Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations:
 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT&#8217;S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with &#8220;Item 1A. Risk Factors&#8221;, our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes thereto, as well as other cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before deciding to purchase, hold or sell shares of our common stock. 

Overview 

Our Company and Our Businesses 

NVIDIA pioneered accelerated computing to help solve the most challenging computational problems. Since our original focus on PC graphics, we have expanded to several other large and important computationally intensive fields. Fueled by the sustained demand for exceptional 3D graphics and the scale of the gaming market, NVIDIA has leveraged its GPU architecture to create platforms for scientific computing, AI, data science, AV, robotics, metaverse and 3D internet applications. 

Our two operating segments are "Compute &#38; Networking" and "Graphics." Refer to Note 17 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information. 

Headquartered in Santa Clara, California, NVIDIA was incorporated in California in April 1993 and reincorporated in Delaware in April 1998. 

Recent Developments, Future Objectives and Challenges 

Supply, Products Transitions, and New Products and Business Models 

Our supply, which includes inventory on hand, purchase obligations and prepaid supply agreements, has grown significantly due to current supply chain conditions, complexity of our products, and recent reductions in demand. At the end of fiscal year 2023, purchase obligations and prepaid supply agreements represented more than half of our total supply. Inventory provisions for excess inventory and purchase obligations totaled $2.17 billion in fiscal year 2023. We may incur inventory provisions if our inventory or supply commitments are misaligned with demand for our products. 

Product transitions are complex as we often ship both new and legacy architecture products simultaneously and we and our channel partners prepare to ship and support new products. We are currently transitioning the architecture of our Data Center, Professional Visualization, and Gaming products. Qualification time for new products, customers anticipating product transitions and channel partners reducing channel inventory of legacy architectures ahead of new product introductions can create reductions or volatility in our revenue. While we have managed prior product transitions and have previously sold multiple product architectures at the same time, these transitions are difficult and prior trends may not continue. 

We build technology and products for use cases and applications that may be new or may not yet exist. Examples include our Omniverse platform and third-party large language models and generative models. Our demand estimates for these use cases and applications can be incorrect and create volatility in our revenue or supply levels, and we may not be able to generate any revenue from these use cases and applications. 

NVIDIA AI Cloud Service Offerings 

We will offer enterprise customers NVIDIA AI cloud services directly and through our network of partners. Examples of these services include NVIDIA DGX Cloud, which is cloud-based infrastructure and software for training AI models, and customizable pretrained AI models. NVIDIA has partnered with leading cloud service providers to host these services in their data centers. 

We entered into multi-year cloud service agreements in the second half of fiscal year 2023 to these offerings and our research and development activities. NVIDIA AI cloud services may not be successful and will take time, resources and investment. We also offer or plan to offer standalone software solutions for AI including NVIDIA AI Enterprise, NVIDIA Omniverse, NVIDIA DRIVE for automotive, and several other software solutions. These new business models or strategies may not be successful and we may fail to sell any meaningful standalone software or as-a-service solutions. We may incur significant costs and may not achieve any significant revenue from these offerings. 

Global Trade 

During the third quarter of fiscal year 2023, the USG announced new license requirements that, with certain exceptions, impact exports to China (including Hong Kong and Macau) and Russia of our A100 and H100 integrated circuits, DGX or any other systems or boards which incorporate A100 or H100 integrated circuits and our A100X. We are required to transition certain operations out of China (including Hong Kong), including research and development and supply and distribution operations. We have engaged with customers in China to provide alternative products not subject to the new license requirements, such as our new A800 offering. 

Management of these new license and other requirements is complicated and time consuming. Our results and competitive position may be harmed if customers in China do not want to purchase our alternative product offerings, if customers purchase product from competitors, or if customers develop their own internal solution, if the USG does not grant licenses in a timely manner or denies licenses to significant customers, or if we incur significant transition costs. 

COVID-19 

During fiscal year 2023, we reopened our offices worldwide. We incurred incremental expenses and related in-office costs as we ramped onsite services. 

Restrictions may be imposed or reinstated as the pandemic resurfaces, such as lockdown measures due to COVID-19 containment efforts in China. During fiscal year 2023, end customer sales for our products in China have been negatively impacted by lockdowns and this impact may continue if lockdowns return. COVID-19-related disruptions have created and may continue to create supply chain and logistics constraints. Challenges in estimating demand could become more pronounced or volatile in the future on both a global and regional basis. 

Russia 

In fiscal year 2023, we stopped direct sales to Russia and later in the year, we closed business operations in Russia. Direct sales to Russia in fiscal year 2022 were immaterial. Our revenue to partners that sell into Russia may have been negatively impacted due to the war in Ukraine. 

Termination of the Arm Share Purchase Agreement 

In February 2022, NVIDIA and SoftBank announced the termination of the Share Purchase Agreement whereby NVIDIA would have acquired Arm from SoftBank due to significant regulatory challenges preventing the completion of the transaction. We recorded an acquisition termination cost of $1.35 billion in fiscal year 2023 reflecting the write-off of the prepayment provided at signing. 

Fiscal Year 2023 Summary 

##TABLE_START &#160; Year Ended &#160; January 29, 2023 January 30, 2022 Change ($ in millions, except per share data) Revenue $ 26,974 $ 26,914 &#8212; % Gross margin 56.9 % 64.9 % Down 8.0 pts Operating expenses $ 11,132 $ 7,434 Up 50% Income from operations $ 4,224 $ 10,041 Down 58% Net income $ 4,368 $ 9,752 Down 55% Net income per diluted share $ 1.74 $ 3.85 Down 55% ##TABLE_END

We specialize in markets where our computing platforms can provide tremendous acceleration for applications. These platforms incorporate processors, interconnects, software, algorithms, systems, and services to deliver unique value. Our platforms address four large markets where our expertise is critical: Data Center, Gaming, Professional Visualization, and Automotive. 

Revenue for fiscal year 2023 revenue was $26.97 billion, flat compared with a year ago. 

Data Center revenue was up 41% from a year ago led by strong growth from hyperscale customers and also reflects purchases made by several CSP partners to support multi-year cloud service agreements for our new NVIDIA AI cloud service offerings and our research and development activities. 

Gaming revenue was down 27% from a year ago reflecting lower sell-in to partners to help reduce channel inventory levels as global macro-economic conditions and COVID-19 related disruptions in China weighed on gaming demand. 

Professional Visualization revenue was down 27% from a year ago reflecting a lower sell-in to partners to help reduce channel inventory levels. 

Automotive revenue was up 60% from a year ago reflecting growth in sales of self-driving solutions, computing solutions for electric vehicle makers and strength in sales of AI cockpit solutions. The increase also included growth in automotive development arrangements. 

OEM and Other revenue was down 61% from a year ago driven by notebook OEM and CMP. CMP revenue was nominal in fiscal year 2023 and $550 million in fiscal year 2022. 

Gross margin for fiscal year 2023 declined from a year ago, driven by $2.17 billion of inventory charges largely relating to excess supply of NVIDIA Ampere architecture Gaming and Data Center products as compared to the demand expectations for these products, particularly for the expected demand in China. The inventory charges were comprised of $1.04 billion for inventory on hand and $1.13 billion for inventory purchase obligations in excess of our demand expectations. 

Operating expenses, which included a $1.35 billion acquisition termination charge related to the Arm transaction, were up 50% from a year ago. The increase also reflected compensation, data center infrastructure, and engineering development costs. 

Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were $13.30 billion. 

During fiscal year 2023, we returned $10.44 billion to shareholders in the form of share repurchases and cash dividends. As of the end of fiscal year 2023, we had $7.23 billion remaining under our share repurchase authorization through December 2023. 

Market Platform Highlights 

Data Center revenue for fiscal year 2023 was $15.01 billion, up 41% from fiscal year 2022. The strong growth in Data Center revenue was influenced by hyperscaler and cloud usage of our accelerated computing platforms and networking portfolio. In Data Center, we announced the NVIDIA Hopper GPU architecture and began ramping the first products based on the architecture, including the NVIDIA H100 Tensor Core GPU. The NVIDIA OVX server reference design launched for digital twins and other Omniverse applications. We completed two new large language models for cloud AI services &#8212; NVIDIA NeMo LLM and NVIDIA BioNeMo LLM. Additionally, we announced the NVIDIA Spectrum-4 end-to-end 400Gbps networking platform and began shipping Quantum-2 in December 2022. 

Gaming revenue for fiscal year 2023 was $9.07 billion, down 27% from fiscal year 2022. Gaming results were influenced by the rapid change in economic conditions causing excess inventory with our channel partners. We introduced pricing programs for our channel partners and started undershipping GPU supply to the partners so that we could lower inventory in the channel. As we exited fiscal year 2023, we have made meaningful progress in establishing lower inventory levels with our channel partners. In Gaming, we announced the new Ada Lovelace GPU architecture, and introduced the first products based on Ada, including the GeForce RTX 4090, RTX 4080, and RTX 4070 Ti desktop GPUs and laptop GPUs featured in over 170 laptop designs. We introduced NVIDIA DLSS 3 for over 50 games and applications. We brought GeForce RTX 4080-class performance to the GeForce NOW Ultimate membership tier. 

Professional Visualization revenue for fiscal year 2023 was $1.54 billion, down 27% from fiscal year 2022. Professional Visualization results were influenced by the rapid change in economic conditions causing excess inventory with our OEM partners. In Professional Visualization, we added new NVIDIA Ampere architecture RTX GPUs for workstations. We also announced Omniverse Avatar Cloud Engine and Omniverse Cloud and released a major update to NVIDIA Omniverse Enterprise. 

Automotive revenue for fiscal year 2023 grew 60% compared to fiscal year 2022 to $903 million. In Automotive, we started production of the NVIDIA DRIVE Orin autonomous vehicle SOC and introduced next-generation NVIDIA DRIVE Thor. 

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 

Management&#8217;s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, cost of revenue, expenses and related disclosure of contingencies. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to inventories, revenue recognition, and income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities. 

We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Our management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting policies and estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. The Audit Committee has reviewed our disclosures relating to our critical accounting policies and estimates in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Inventories 

Inventory cost is computed on an adjusted standard basis, which approximates actual cost on an average or first-in, first-out basis. We charge cost of sales for inventory provisions to write-down our inventory to the lower of cost or net realizable value or for obsolete or excess inventory, and for excess product purchase commitments. Most of our inventory provisions relate to excess quantities of products or components, based on our inventory levels and future product purchase commitments compared to assumptions about future demand and market conditions, which requires management judgment. 

Situations that may result in excess or obsolete inventory or excess product purchase commitments include changes in business and economic conditions, changes in market conditions, sudden and significant decreases in demand for our products, inventory obsolescence because of changing technology and customer requirements, new product introductions resulting in less demand for existing products or inconsistent spikes in demand due to unexpected end use cases, failure to estimate customer demand properly, ordering in advance of historical lead-times and the impact of changes in future demand, or increase in demand for competitive products, including competitive actions. Cancellation or deferral of customer purchase orders could result in our holding excess inventory. 

The overall net effect on our gross margin from inventory provisions and sales of items previously written down was an unfavorable impact of 7.5% in fiscal year 2023 and 0.9% in fiscal year 2022. As a fabless semiconductor company, we must make commitments to purchase inventory based on forecasts of future customer demand. In doing so, we must account for our third-party manufacturers' lead times and constraints. In the past, our manufacturing lead times have been long, and in some cases, extended beyond twelve months for some products. We place non-cancellable inventory orders for certain product components in advance of our historical lead times, pay premiums and provide deposits to secure future supply and capacity. We also adjust to other market factors, such as product offerings and pricing actions by our competitors, new product transitions, and macroeconomic conditions - all of which may impact demand for our products. 

Refer to the Gross Profit and Gross Margin discussion below in this Management's Discussion and Analysis for further discussion. 

Revenue Recognition 

We derive our revenue from product sales, including hardware and systems, license and development arrangements, software licensing, and cloud services. We determine revenue recognition through the following steps: (1) identification of the contract with a customer; (2) identification of the performance obligations in the contract; (3) determination of the transaction price; (4) allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract (where revenue is allocated on a relative standalone selling 

price basis by maximizing the use of observable inputs to determine the standalone selling price for each performance obligation); and (5) recognition of revenue when, or as, we satisfy a performance obligation. 

Product Sales Revenue 

Revenue from product sales is recognized upon transfer of control of products to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products. Certain products are sold with support or an extended warranty for the incorporated system, hardware, and/or software. Support and extended warranty revenue are recognized ratably over the service period, or as services are performed. Revenue is recognized net of allowances for returns, customer programs and any taxes collected from customers. 

For products sold with a right of return, we record a reduction to revenue by establishing a sales return allowance for estimated product returns at the time revenue is recognized, based primarily on historical return rates. However, if product returns for a fiscal period are anticipated to exceed historical return rates, we may determine that additional sales return allowances are required to properly reflect our estimated exposure for product returns. 

Our customer programs involve rebates, which are designed to serve as sales incentives to resellers of our products in various target markets, and marketing development funds, or MDFs, which represent monies paid to our partners that are earmarked for market segment development and are designed to support our partners&#8217; activities while also promoting NVIDIA products. We account for customer programs as a reduction to revenue and accrue for potential rebates and MDFs based on the amount we expect to be claimed by customers. 

License and Development Arrangements 

Our license and development arrangements with customers typically require significant customization of our IP components. As a result, we recognize the revenue from the license and the revenue from the development services as a single performance obligation over the period in which the development services are performed. We measure progress to completion based on actual cost incurred to date as a percentage of the estimated total cost required to complete each project. If a loss on an arrangement becomes probable during a period, we record a provision for such loss in that period. 

Refer to Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information. 

Income Taxes 

We recognize federal, state and foreign current tax liabilities or assets based on our estimate of taxes payable or refundable in the current fiscal year by tax jurisdiction. We recognize federal, state and foreign deferred tax assets or liabilities, as appropriate, for our estimate of future tax effects attributable to temporary differences and carryforwards; and we record a valuation allowance to reduce any deferred tax assets by the amount of any tax benefits that, based on available evidence and judgment, are not expected to be realized. 

Our calculation of deferred tax assets and liabilities is based on certain estimates and judgments and involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws. Our estimates of deferred tax assets and liabilities may change based, in part, on added certainty or finality to an anticipated outcome, changes in accounting standards or tax laws in the United States, or foreign jurisdictions where we operate, or changes in other facts or circumstances. In addition, we recognize liabilities for potential United States and foreign income tax contingencies based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes may be due. If we determine that payment of these amounts is unnecessary or if the recorded tax liability is less than our current assessment, we may be required to recognize an income tax benefit or additional income tax expense in our financial statements accordingly. 

As of the end of fiscal years 2023 and 2022, we had a valuation allowance of $1.48 billion and $907 million, respectively, related to capital loss carryforwards, state, and certain other deferred tax assets that management determined not likely to be realized due, in part, to jurisdictional projections of future taxable income, including capital gains. To the extent realization of the deferred tax assets becomes more-likely-than-not, we would recognize such deferred tax assets as income tax benefits during the period. 

We recognize the benefit from a tax position only if it is more-likely-than-not that the position would be sustained upon audit based solely on the technical merits of the tax position. Our policy is to include interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax expense. 

Refer to Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information. 

Change in Accounting Estimate 

In February 2023, we completed an assessment of the useful lives of our property, plant, and equipment. Based on advances in technology and usage rate, we increased the estimated useful life of a majority of the server, storage, and network equipment from three years to a range of four to five years, and assembly and test equipment from five years to seven years. This change in accounting estimate became effective at the beginning of fiscal year 2024. Based on the carrying amounts of a majority of our server, storage, network, and assembly and test equipment, net in use as of the end of fiscal year 2023, it is estimated this change will increase our fiscal year 2024 operating income by $133 million as a result of the reduction in depreciation expense. 

Results of Operations 

A discussion regarding our financial condition and results of operations for fiscal year 2023 compared to fiscal year 2022 is presented below. A discussion regarding our financial condition and results of operations for fiscal year 2022 compared to fiscal year 2021 can be found under Item 7 in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 30, 2022, filed with the SEC on March 18, 2022, which is available free of charge on the SEC&#8217;s website at http://www.sec.gov and at our investor relations website, http://investor.nvidia.com. 

The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, certain items in our Consolidated Statements of Income expressed as a percentage of revenue. 

##TABLE_START &#160; Year Ended &#160; January 29, 2023 January 30, 2022 Revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenue 43.1 35.1 Gross profit 56.9 64.9 Operating expenses &#160; Research and development 27.2 19.6 Sales, general and administrative 9.1 8.0 Acquisition termination cost 5.0 &#8212; Total operating expenses 41.3 27.6 Income from operations 15.6 37.3 Interest income 1.0 0.1 Interest expense (1.0) (0.9) Other, net (0.1) 0.4 Other income (expense), net (0.1) (0.4) Income before income tax 15.5 36.9 Income tax expense (benefit) (0.7) 0.7 Net income 16.2 % 36.2 % ##TABLE_END

Revenue 

Revenue by Reportable Segments 

##TABLE_START Year Ended January 29, 2023 January 30, 2022 $ Change % Change ($ in millions) Compute &#38; Networking $ 15,068 $ 11,046 $ 4,022 36 % Graphics 11,906 15,868 (3,962) (25) % Total $ 26,974 $ 26,914 $ 60 &#8212; % ##TABLE_END

Compute &#38; Networking - The year-on-year increase was led by growth from hyperscale customers and also reflects purchases made by several CSP partners to support multi-year cloud service agreements for our new NVIDIA AI cloud service offerings and our research and development activities. The increase was also related to the growth in Automotive. CMP contributed an insignificant amount in fiscal year 2023 compared to $550 million in fiscal year 2022. 

Graphics - The year-on-year decrease primarily reflects lower sell-in to partners to help reduce channel inventory levels as global macro-economic conditions and COVID-19 related disruptions in China weighed on gaming demand. 

Concentration of Revenue 

Revenue from sales to customers outside of the United States accounted for 69% and 84% of total revenue for fiscal years 2023 and 2022, respectively. The decline in revenue outside the U.S. was primarily driven by China and Taiwan related to Data Center and Gaming. Revenue by geographic region is allocated to countries based on the billed location even if the revenue may be attributable to end customers in a different location. 

No customer represented 10% or more of total revenue for fiscal years 2023 and 2022. 

Gross Profit and Gross Margin 

Gross profit consists of total revenue, net of allowances, less cost of revenue. Cost of revenue consists primarily of the cost of semiconductors, including wafer fabrication, assembly, testing and packaging, board and device costs, manufacturing support costs, including labor and overhead associated with such purchases, final test yield fallout, inventory and warranty provisions, memory and component costs, tariffs, and shipping costs. Cost of revenue also includes acquisition-related costs, development costs for license and service arrangements, IP-related costs, and stock-based compensation related to personnel associated with manufacturing operations. 

Gross margin was 56.9% and 64.9% for fiscal years 2023 and 2022, respectively. The decrease in fiscal year 2023 was primarily due to $2.17 billion of inventory provisions in fiscal year 2023, which consists of approximately $1.04 billion for inventory on hand and approximately $1.13 billion for inventory purchase obligations in excess of our current demand projections. 

Inventory provisions totaled $2.17 billion and $354 million for fiscal years 2023 and 2022, respectively. Sales of inventory that was previously written-off totaled $137 million and $111 million for fiscal years 2023 and 2022, respectively. As a result, the overall net effect on our gross margin was an unfavorable impact of 7.5% and 0.9% in fiscal years 2023 and 2022, respectively. 

Compute &#38; Networking - The gross margin of our Compute &#38; Networking segment decreased during fiscal year 2023 when compared to fiscal year 2022, primarily due to inventory provisions. 

Graphics - The gross margin of our Graphics segment decreased during fiscal year 2023 when compared to fiscal year 2022, primarily due to inventory and related provisions and lower margins of GeForce GPUs. 

Operating Expenses 

##TABLE_START &#160; Year Ended &#160; January 29, 2023 January 30, 2022 $ Change % Change &#160; ($ in millions) Research and development expenses $ 7,339 $ 5,268 $ 2,071 39 % % of revenue 27.2 % 19.6 % &#160; &#160; Sales, general and administrative expenses 2,440 2,166 274 13 % % of revenue 9.1 % 8.0 % &#160; &#160; Acquisition termination cost 1,353 &#8212; 1,353 100 % % of revenue 5.0 % &#8212; % Total operating expenses $ 11,132 $ 7,434 $ 3,698 50 % % of revenue 41.3 % 27.6 % ##TABLE_END

The increase in research and development expense for fiscal year 2023 was primarily driven by increased compensation, employee growth, engineering development costs, and data center infrastructure. 

The increase in sales, general and administrative expense for fiscal year 2023 was primarily driven by increased compensation and employee growth. 

We recorded an acquisition termination cost related to the Arm transaction of $1.35 billion in fiscal year 2023 reflecting the write-off of the prepayment provided at signing. 

Other Income (Expense), Net 

##TABLE_START &#160; Year Ended &#160; January 29, 2023 January 30, 2022 $ Change % Change &#160; ($ in millions) Interest income $ 267 $ 29 $ 238 821 % Interest expense (262) (236) (26) 11 % Other, net (48) 107 (155) (145) % Other income (expense), net $ (43) $ (100) $ 57 (57) % ##TABLE_END

Interest income consists of interest earned on cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. The increase in interest income was primarily due to higher yields earned on our investments. 

Interest expense is primarily comprised of coupon interest and debt discount amortization related to our notes. The increase in expense reflects interest on the $5.00 billion debt offering issued in June 2021. 

Other, net, consists primarily of realized or unrealized gains and losses from investments in non-affiliated entities and the impact of changes in foreign currency rates. Change in other, net, compared to fiscal year 2022 was primarily driven by mark-to-market losses from publicly traded equity investments and changes in value from our non-affiliated private investments. Refer to Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding our investments in non-affiliated entities. 

Income Taxes 

We recognized income tax benefit of $187 million for fiscal year 2023 and income tax expense of $189 million for fiscal year 2022. Income tax as a percentage of income before income tax was a benefit of 4.5% for fiscal year 2023 and an expense of 1.9% for fiscal year 2022. 

Beginning in fiscal year 2023, the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or TCJA, requires taxpayers to capitalize research and development expenditures and to amortize domestic expenditures over five years and foreign expenditures over fifteen years. 

The fiscal year 2023 effective tax rate includes the mandatory capitalization and amortization of research and development expenses beginning in fiscal year 2023, which resulted in a greater FDII deduction and significantly increased current taxes, with a corresponding deferred tax benefit at the relevant statutory tax rate. 

The decrease in our effective tax rate in fiscal year 2023 as compared to fiscal year 2022 was primarily due to increased tax benefits of the FDII deduction, stock-based compensation, and the U.S. federal research tax credit, relative to lower profitability. This is partially offset by the impact of an increase in the proportion of earnings subject to U.S. tax in fiscal year 2023 and the one-time benefits of the domestication of a foreign subsidiary in fiscal year 2022, or the Domestication. 

Our effective tax rate for fiscal year 2023 was lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% due primarily to tax benefits from the FDII deduction, tax benefits related to stock-based compensation and the U.S. federal research tax credit. 

Our effective tax rate for fiscal year 2022 was lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% due to tax benefits from the FDII deduction, income earned in jurisdictions that are subject to taxes lower than the U.S. federal statutory tax rate, excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation, recognition of U.S. federal research tax credit and the one-time benefits of the Domestication. 

Refer to Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information. 

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

##TABLE_START &#160; January 29, 2023 January 30, 2022 &#160; (In millions) Cash and cash equivalents $ 3,389 $ 1,990 Marketable securities 9,907 19,218 Cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities $ 13,296 $ 21,208 ##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START &#160; Year Ended January 29, 2023 January 30, 2022 &#160; (In millions) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 5,641 $ 9,108 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ 7,375 $ (9,830) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ (11,617) $ 1,865 ##TABLE_END

As of January 29, 2023, we had $13.30 billion in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, a decrease of $7.91 billion from the end of fiscal year 2022. Our investment policy requires the purchase of highly rated fixed income securities, the diversification of investment types and credit exposures, and certain maturity limits on our portfolio. 

Cash provided by operating activities decreased in fiscal year 2023 compared to fiscal year 2022, primarily due to a decrease in net income adjusted for certain non-cash items, such as the Arm acquisition termination cost of $1.35 billion, and higher tax payments, partially offset by changes in working capital. Changes in working capital were primarily driven by lower accounts receivable due to strong collections partially offset by timing of supplier payments and inventory deliveries. 

Cash provided by investing activities increased in fiscal year 2023 compared to fiscal year 2022, primarily driven by lower purchases and higher sales and maturities of marketable securities, offset by higher capital expenditures. 

Cash used in financing activities increased in fiscal year 2023 compared to fiscal year 2022, due to share repurchases and the absence of debt issuance proceeds in fiscal year 2023, offset by absence of debt repayment. 

Liquidity 

Our primary sources of liquidity are our cash and cash equivalents, our marketable securities, and cash generated by our operations. At the end of fiscal year 2023, we had $13.30 billion in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. We believe that we have sufficient liquidity to meet our operating requirements for at least the next twelve months, and for the foreseeable future, including our future supply obligations and $1.25 billion of debt repayment due in fiscal year 2024. We continuously evaluate our liquidity and capital resources, including our access to external capital, to ensure we can finance future capital requirements. 

Our marketable securities consist of debt securities issued by the U.S. government and its agencies, highly rated corporations and financial institutions, and foreign government entities, as well as certificates of deposit issued by highly rated financial institutions. These marketable securities are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars. Refer to Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information. 

During fiscal year 2024, we expect to use our existing cash and cash equivalents, our marketable securities, and the cash generated by our operations to fund our capital investments of approximately $1.10 billion to $1.30 billion related to property and equipment. 

Except for approximately $1.38 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities held outside the U.S. for which we have not accrued any related foreign or state taxes if we repatriate these amounts to the U.S., substantially all of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities held outside of the U.S. at the end of fiscal year 2023 are available for use in the U.S. without incurring additional U.S. federal income taxes. 

Beginning in fiscal year 2023, the TCJA requires taxpayers to capitalize research and development expenditures and to amortize domestic expenditures over five years and foreign expenditures over fifteen years. The adverse cash flow impact of mandatory capitalization will be reduced in future years as capitalized research and development expenditures continue to amortize. Refer to Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information. 

Capital Return to Shareholders 

During fiscal year 2023, we returned $10.04 billion in share repurchases and $398 million in quarterly cash dividends. Our cash dividend program and the payment of future cash dividends under that program are subject to our Board of Directors' continuing determination that the dividend program and the declaration of dividends thereunder are in the best interests of our shareholders. 

As of January 29, 2023, we were authorized, subject to certain specifications, to repurchase additional shares of our common stock up to $7.23 billion through December 2023. 

Outstanding Indebtedness and Commercial Paper Program 

Our aggregate debt maturities as of January 29, 2023, by year payable, are as follows: 

##TABLE_START &#160; January 29, 2023 &#160; (In millions) Due in one year $ 1,250 Due in one to five years 2,250 Due in five to ten years 4,000 Due in greater than ten years 3,500 Unamortized debt discount and issuance costs (47) Net carrying amount 10,953 Less short-term portion (1,250) Total long-term portion $ 9,703 ##TABLE_END

We have a $575 million commercial paper program to support general corporate purposes. As of the end of fiscal year 2023, we had not issued any commercial paper. 

Refer to Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion. 

Material Cash Requirements and Other Obligations 

For a description of our long-term debt, purchase obligations, and operating lease obligations, refer to Note 12, Note 13, and Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, respectively. 

We have unrecognized tax benefits of $1.02 billion, which includes related interest and penalties of $95 million, recorded in non-current income tax payable at the end of fiscal year 2023. We are unable to reasonably estimate the timing of any potential tax liability, interest payments, or penalties in individual years due to uncertainties in the underlying income tax positions and the timing of the effective settlement of such tax positions. We are currently under examination by the Internal Revenue Service for our fiscal years 2018 and 2019. Refer to Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information. 

Climate Change 

To date, there has been no material impact to our results of operations associated with global sustainability regulations, compliance, costs from sourcing renewable energy or climate-related business trends. 

Adoption of New and Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements 

Refer to Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of adoption of new and recently issued accounting pronouncements. 



Instruction: 
According to the given information, 
1. Briefly describe the companys industry,
2. Highlight core strengths and competitive advantages key products or services,
3. Identify current industry trends, opportunities, and challenges that influence the companys strategy,
4. Outline recent strategic initiatives such as product launches, acquisitions, or new partnerships, and describe the company's response to market conditions. 
Less than 400 words.


Instruction: Summarize the analysis, less than 130 words.